10001	It is important to understand what congenital adrenal hyperplasia (CAH) is before the nature of 11 beta hydroxylase deficiency can be fully explained. CAH refers to any one of the many autosomal recessive illnesses that result from flaws in cortisol synthesis steps done by the adrenal glands. All of the types of CAH have either overproduction or malfunctioning of sex steroids. 11 beta hydroxylase deficiency is just one of the types of CAH and is a result of mutation in the gene called CYP11B1. This type is next only to 21-hydroxylase deficiency when it comes to its prevalence, comprising only 5-8% of the entire number of cases.
10002	11Beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase type 2 deficiency also known as (11beta-HSD2) is one of the most common causes of retention of sodium and serious cases of hypertension. This happens when glucocorticoids are admitted to the mineralocorticosteroid receptors which are non-selective.
10003	17 Alpha hydroxylase deficiency syndrome is a very rare disorder of the genes (specifically on steroid biosynthesis) which causes reduced production of sex steroids and glucocorticoids while the mineralocorticoid precursors are observed to have increased synthesis. It is, therefore, an autosomal recessive condition. The absence or deficiency of 17 hydroxylase results into many sexual malformations and illnesses.
10004	The hormones estrogen and androgen play critical roles in the development of sexual organs. 17b-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase isozyme (17â–€-HSD) acts as a catalyst between the biologically inactive and active types of hormones. Any deviation from this normal process results into various abnormal conditions.
10005	1p36 deletion syndrome also known as monosomy 1p36 is a disorder of the chromosomes in which chromosome 1 loses the end part of its short arm. This disorder was first depicted during the late 90's and the early parts of 2000's. FISH testing is often required to be able to confirm a diagnosis. This condition can occur as a 'pure' case or it can occur together with other imbalances of the chromosome.
10006	21-hydroxylase deficiency is also called as congenital adrenal hyperplasia and is a disorder that is often inherited. This disorder affects the adrenal glands which are located above the kidneys and these glands produce hormones that are responsible for regulating many important human body functions. The two hormones, cortisol and aldosterone, are produced by an enzyme called the 21-hydroxylase. Patients that have 21-hydroxylase deficiency lack the 21-hydroxylase enzyme which then affects the cholesterol conversion to aldosterone and cortisol. When the precursors of these two hormones are stored excessively in the adrenal glands, they are changed into androgens (which are male sex hormones). Whether the patient is male or female, growth development could be hampered because of this deficiency.
10007	The disorder known as 22q11.2 deletion syndrome is caused by the deficiency or deletion of a tiny piece of chromosome 22. This deletion happens near the midsection of a chromosome located at q 11.2.
10008	3-Beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase deficiency (3B HSD) is a very rare disorder of the genes involving steroid biosynthesis. This deficiency results into the decrease on the production of adrenal steroid groups which are inclusive of glucocorticoids, mineralocorticoids, and the sex steroids. A decrease on the secretion of mineralocorticoid would result into various salt wasting degrees in males and females. And for the 46 XY males, a deficiency in androgen would result into ambiguous genitals (the females are seen with enlarged clitoris).
10009	The enzyme called 3-Methyl Glutaconyl-CoA Hydratase is involved in amino acid (Leucine) metabolism. This enzyme is located in the mitochondria together with other enzymes of catabolic leucine. When an individual has a deficiency of 3-Methyl Glutaconyl-CoA Hydratase, 3-methylglutaconic acid is excreted massively and the impaired leucine breaks down. Very few patients have been reported with this type of deficiency but its occurrence is a reality, nonetheless. There a few severe clinical cases that have been reported which resulted because of this deficiency. Some patients have developed severe cardiopulmonary manifestations as soon as they were born; others have been reported to have psychomotor retardation; other cases include hypotonia, seizures, spasticity and thriving failure. Carnitine levels are at their lowest with this deficiency occurs. There are also rare cases of recurrent acidosis (seen in cases of fasting that has been prolonged). There was also a reported case of speech retardation.
10010	LCHAD or the long-chain 3-hydroxyacyl-CoA dehydrogenase is one of the components of the trifunctional protein of mitochondria. When a person becomes deficient of LCHAD activity, he will soon show various manifestations of his inherited condition.
10011	3-Methylcrotonyl-CoA carboxylase deficiency is known by many names. It is also called as 3MCC deficiency, Methylcrotonylglycinuria type 1, or BMCC. This is a disorder that can be inherited where the human body becomes incapable of properly processing some proteins. Those who suffer from this deficiency have an insufficient supply of leucine-breaking enzyme. Leucine is an amino acid which is a protein base.
10012	3-Methylglutaconic aciduria also known as MGA is a term that is used to depict at least 5 varying disorders which makes the body incapable of creating mitochondrial energy. Due to this impairment, 3-methylglutaric acid and 3-methylglutaconic acid create a buildup and their presence can be detected in the patient's urine. 3-Methylglutaconic acid, by classification, is an organic acid. The potency of this acid is made possible by the roles of the double carboxylic acids. The acid function makes the 3-methylglutaconic acid detectable.
10013	3C syndrome is also known as cranio-cerebello cardiac (CCC dysplasia) or Ritscher-Schinzel (named after Ritscher and Schinzel who discovered the illness) and is a very rare case of disease. This syndrome is characterized by heart defects or heart malformations and other symptoms that involve the brain. As of 2006, a Kuwaiti medical journal showed that only 30 cases have been reported worldwide and these cases were discovered in Europe and North America. Due to the limited number of cases reported, this disease was classified as a rare type of illness. The molecular basis for this syndrome is still unknown.
10014	3M syndrome is known by many names. It can also be called as Three M syndrome or dolicospondylic dysplasia; le Merrer syndrome or gloomy syndrome (because prevalent symptoms show malformities on the patients' faces). This is a very rare illness where only 32 patients have been reported to have acquired it. Its name originated from the names of the authors who first described the characteristics of the illness. The authors' names were Miller, J.D., Malvaux P. and the third is McKusick, V.A. No mental retardation has been mentioned as a result of 3M. This disorder is known as an autosomal recessive trait of the genes and can be inherited.
10015	46 Gonadal dysgenesis epibulbar dermoid can be best described as a female in her adolescent period that experiences no changes even during this age of puberty. This is because this disorder is a type of female hypogonadism. When this disorder is acquired, the ovaries do not develop and function to perform their duties. With this type of disorder, female patients experience a deficiency in their supply of estrogen while the LH and FSH levels are at their peak. It is advisable to give the patient hormonal treatments such as the introduction of estrogen and progesterone to the body.
10016	47 XXY syndrome is popularly known as the Klinefelter's syndrome, or simply, the XXY syndrome. Chromosome aneuploidy causes the occurrence of this condition. The male patients develop an extra X chromosome. Typically, males should have one each of the X and the Y chromosomes. Patients who suffer from this condition have smaller testicles when compared to their normal male counterparts and thus, they acquire problems on infertility. There are very few symptoms to this syndrome and the cases vary among boys and men. The term for this illness was named after an endocrinologist, Harry Klinefelter. 1942 was the year when he first described the XXY syndrome. The patients who suffer with XXY syndrome are called XXY males or 47,XXY males.
10017	The XYY syndrome should never be interchanged with the XXY syndrome which is popularly known as the Klinefelter's syndrome. XYY syndrome is a condition when a male patient acquires an extra Y chromosome in addition to the normal one X and one Y chromosomes. It is often argued whether the term 'syndrome' should be used in connection to the XYY condition since the patients' phenotypes are normal and they do not have knowledge of their karyotype.
10018	48 XXXX syndrome is a very rare disorder of the chromosomes where the normal XX combination becomes a quadruple X grouping. This condition is also called tetrasomy X, 48, XXXX or quadruple X and is only seen among females as there is no Y chromosome involved. The first occurrence of this disorder was discovered in 1961 and since then, there are about 100 reported cases globally.
10019	Previously known to be a variant or type of the Klinefelter's syndrome, this condition is an anomaly of the sex chromosome. The features usually include gynecomastia (having enlarged male breasts), ulcers of the skin, deformed craniofacial features, and being unusually tall. It is also believed to affect 1 in every 17,000 male babies that are born. XXYY is just one of the many variations of chromosomal defects which include the following: 47 xxy, xy, xxxxy, and xxxy; also the xyy. These syndromes affect males whereas female counterparts include the Turner syndrome and other varieties with added X chromosomes.
10020	The 49 XXXXX syndrome (also called as Penta X or pentasomy X) is a chromosomal condition that affects females. In a normal setup, females have only two X chromosomes and anything beyond this is abnormal. In the case of Penta X syndrome, there are an additional three X chromosomes which now totals five. The three additional X chromosomes are the ones that cause multiple problems. These extra X chromosomes are formed together with the two healthy chromosomes inside the nucleus of the human body cells.
10021	Aagenaes syndrome is a condition which is characterized by inborn hypoplasia of the lymph vessels. This eventually causes recurring cholestasis on the formative years lymphedema on the legs. This could develop into hepatic cirrhosis and giant cell hepatitis (which could occur with portal tract fibrosis). The name of Aagenaes syndrome was derived from a pediatrician in Norway named Oystein Aagenaes. The name was finalized in 1968 when the condition was first described by Aagenaes. It is sometimes called cholestasis-lymphedema syndrome or simply CLS.
10022	Aarskog Ose Pande syndrome is a rare type of medical disorder where the main symptoms include lipodystrophy on the buttocks and face. Since this is an adipose tissue defect, the loss of body fat in the body could get severe and this state could progress extensively. There are three kinds of lipodystrophy: localized lipodystrophy, partial lipodystrophy and total lipodystrophy. One other symptom is Rieger anomaly. This anomaly is characterized by the absence or underdevelopment of teeth (it could also mean the delay of tooth eruption) and some abnormalities of the eyes and face. Having sparse hair is also a common sign. This does not only mean hair on one's head but also body hairs. Other defects include retardation of bone age and abnormal motion of the joints (which could eventually lead to dislocation). This syndrome could begin to affect the patient as early as the fetal stage. It could ruin the growth of the fetus in the uterus by slowing its development. When this happens, many other systems are affected. Development of the patient's skills on speech could also be delayed when this disorder is acquired. This and all other symptoms are similar to characteristics of many other diseases that is why the physician should perform a thorough checkup of the patient to be able to diagnose the real condition. Aarskog Ose Pande syndrome is also considered as a variant of Short syndrome. This symptom does not only mean having a short stature but also having low weight at birth and fat losses on the skin.
10023	Aarskog syndrome is an inherited disorder that is often characterized by abnormalities of the face, short stature, genital abnormalities and mucoloskeletal anomalies.
10024	Aase Smith syndrome also known as Aase syndrome is a very rare disorder that can be inherited. It is often characterized by skeletal and joint defects. Aase syndrome is known as an autosomal dominant condition. The genetic origin of the illness is still not known. Anemia which results from this syndrome is often caused by the underdevelopment of bone marrows. These bone marrows are where formation of blood cells takes place. The syndrome was named after two pediatricians who were David Weyhe Smith and Jon Morton Aase.
10025	Aase syndrome is a rare congenital defect characterized by anemia accompanied with certain skeletal deformities.
10026	Aaviophobia is a fear of being on a plane while in flight. Other names include aviatophobia, aerophobia, and pteromerhanophobia. The condition is considered more of a symptom rather than a disease. When fear of flying reaches a level that can significantly interfere with a person's ability to travel by plane, it will then be classified as fear of flying.
10027	Abasia is a condition where the patient is unable to walk due to impaired muscle synchronization. This means that the patient lacks motor synchronization in walking. With this condition, the foundation of gait (this is the distance of the two feet when measured sideways) is not constant or cannot be measured. This often leads the patient to sway from side to side or in any other direction, nearly falls, only to recover in the end. There are many other medical conditions that are connected to this disorder: choreic abasia (brought about by chorea of the leg); paralytic abasia (this is a paralysis of the muscles in the legs); spastic abasia (a condition where the leg muscles stiffen because they do not coordinate properly); ataxic abasia (legs become ataxic); paroxysmal trepidant abasia (a condition where the legs become spastic); trembling abasia (by its name, it means trembling legs). Abasia often comes with astasis (this is the state of being unable to stand). This condition is also referred to as astasia-abasia.
10028	Abdominal aortic aneurysm can be diagnosed on anyone but the most viable candidates are men aged over 60. Couple this range of age with some of the common risk factors and the patient is on his way to developing this condition. This disorder happens when a blood vessel enlarges abnormally or causes a protrusion. The abdominal aorta, which is a huge blood vessel, is the one responsible in supplying blood to the abdomen, the legs and the pelvic area. When this abdominal aortic aneurysm raptures, is truly becomes life-threatening and should be attended to immediately.
10029	Cystic lymphangioma is a very rare tumor (comprises just about 6% of tumors that are benign in children) which is often located in the axillary or cervical regions. Sometimes, there are exceptional cases where it is situated in the abdomen. When it is situated in the abdomen, it becomes a rare type of benign tumor which often appears in infants and some children under the age of 5. Boys are more vulnerable to this disease. Abdominal cystic lymphangioma happens when there is an inborn defect in the link of central connecting structure and the primary lymphatic channel. This manifests in abdominal tumors which could occur even without any compression from structures that are adjacent to that part. When clinically tested, these cysts appear as pseudo appendices or pseudo-ascites syndrome.
10030	Defects of the abdominal wall are comparatively common fetal abnormalities. It occurs in about 1 in every 2,000 births. Majority of these defects of the abdominal wall cannot be detected early on in pregnancy. When a defect is detected, it is necessary to pinpoint what type of defect it is so that proper medication and treatments can be done. There are many types of abdominal wall disorders. Some examples include: gastroschisis, omphalocele, esophageal atresia, and duodenal atresia.
10031	Abdominal migraine is a kind of migraine commonly experienced by children. It is characterized by abdominal pain, vomiting and nausea. These migraines are thought to be present in the child's family members as well.
10032	Abdominal pain is is a medical condition that is characterized by the occurrence of the pain felt in the abdomen.
10033	Abercrombie syndrome, also known as amyloid degeneration, is a progressive decay of the organ tissues due to the excessive amyloid infiltration that eats up the tissue fibers. It is sometimes known as waxy degeneration.
10034	Aberrant subclavian artery is also known as the aberrant subclavian artery syndrome. This condition is a rare anatomical variety of the source of the left or the right subclavian artery. This abnormality has the most number of cases when it comes to the anomaly of inborn vascular aortic arch. The aberrant artery commonly occurs just distal on the left portion of the subclavian artery. It then passes later to the mediastinum when it is on its way to the upper right extremities. This course may be the root cause of a vascular ring about the mediastinal makeup.
10035	Abetalipoproteinemia is a rare hereditary disorder that hinders regular absorption of fact from digested food. Patients with the disease lack the vitamins A, D, E and K.
10036	Ablepharon macrostomia syndrome or AMS is a very uncommon genetic disorder that can be inherited. This syndrome is characterized by various physical defects which usually affect areas of the face, fingers, skin, and the genitalia (penis symptoms and some defects on the testes). Patients of AMS could also have other malformations on their abdominal walls or on their nipples. Other traits include having underdeveloped eyelids (or Ablepharon); the absence of eyebrows and eyelashes; mouths that look like that of a fish's (also known as Macrostomia); cracked skin; ears that appear to be low-set (also known as pinnae). The eye defects could appear due to ablepharon. Some people with AMS could also have very thin or sparse hair (alopecia); their skin appears to be wrinkled, dry, coarse, or thick; their fingers could also be webbed and with inadequate extension; the genitalia could have external malformations. In very few cases of Ablepharon macrostomia syndrome, the patient could have little or no nipples at all (having small nipples is known as hypoplastic nipples). One of the worst characteristics could be the protrusion of some parts of the large intestine through a dilated portion of the abdominal wall (this condition is called ventral or abdominal hernia). Infants and children who suffer from AMS may have some delays on the development of their language skills. Some of them may manifest signs of mild retardation of the mind while others may grow up to be normal. A disorder that appears to have the same features as Ablepharon macrostomia syndrome is the Barber-say syndrome. The latter is characterized by laxity of the skin; ablepharon; hypertelorism, macrostomia, telecanthus, acute hirsutism, and helix agenesis of the pair of ears. Less common signs of AMS include undescended testes and hernia on the umbilicus.
10037	Abnormal uterine bleeding refers to the excessive flow of blood during menstruation. The common symptoms of this condition are a massive menstrual discharge accompanied by pain in the lower abdomen.
10038	Abscess is a collection of pus or dead neutrophils that has mount up in a cavity made by the tissue on the basis of an infectious process or other foreign materials.
10039	Abscess, bartholin (Bartholin's abscess) is characterized by the accumulation of pus that results in the formation of a lump or swelling in one of the Batholin glands, which are located on each side of the vaginal opening.
10040	Absence seizure is more commonly known as the petit mal seizure that involves some a brief episodes or some sudden lapse of conscious activity. This occurs most often in children. Absence seizure may often look like the individual is only staring into space for a several seconds. This means in comparison to the regular epileptic seizures, the petit mal is very mild. However, some people may suffer from hundreds of episodes a day, which interrupts ordinary activities.
10041	The deficiency or absence of T lymphocytes is a rare immuno-deficiency condition which is characterized by the lack of CD8(+) T lymphocytes and the absence or depression of the function of the T cell. A mutation of the gene for ZAP-70 (tyrosine kinase which has notable effects on indicating through the T cell receptor) has been associated with this syndrome. T cells are cells that belong to a cluster of white blood cells which are known as the lymphocytes. These lymphocytes are responsible in cell-mediated immunity. They are distinguished from the other types of lymphocytes (the NK cells and the B cells) through the presence of a specific receptor on the surface of these cells. This receptor is called as T cell receptor or the TCR. The T abbreviation in T cell refers to thymus which is the primary organ in the development of the T cell.
10042	The Abt-Letterer-Siwe disease is a rare but rapidly progressive form of hystiocytosis. This condition is brought about by excessively high levels of hystiocytesin the bone marrow. This disease is difficult to treat, and is associated with diabetes insipidius.
10043	Acanthamoeba refers to the microscopic and free-living ameba that is relatively found to be quite common in the environment. This ameba can cause a number of infections that affects human beings called acanthamoeba infection.
10044	Acanthocheilonemiasis is an uncommon tropical infectious illness which is caused by Acanthocheilonema perstans, a parasite. This parasite causes rashes of the skin, chest and abdominal pains, joint and muscle pains, lumps on the skin and also neurologic defects. This disease is often transmitted when small flies bite the victim and the bite has the parasite with it. The scientific name of the fly that transmits the 'infectious bite' is A.Coliroides. Studies manifest that the white blood cell levels at elevated when the parasite is present in the human body. Acanthocheilonemiasis belongs to the parasitic diseases group which is called nematode or filarial diseases. This disease is often found in Africa only because the parasite is found abundantly on this region. Uganda, specifically, has had a lot of reported cases. A handful of patients were found in South America. Other names for this disease are Acanthocheilonemiasis perstans, Dipetalonema perstans, Mansonella perstans, and Dipetalonemiasis.
10045	Acanthocheilonemiasis perstans is a tropical contagious illness characterized by purities, pain in the chest and abdomen an enlarged spleen. This is a rare disease caused by the bit of flies known as A. coliroides that can be found in Africa. The disease can be treated by antibiotics and is diagnosed by laboratory tests showing elevated amounts of white blood cells.
10046	Acanthocytosis is a phenotype of the red cell which can be found in different fundamental conditions. Bassen-Kornzweig syndrome or Abetalipoproteinemia; and an acute disease of the liver (spur cell hemolytic anemia) are the most common conditions that can be associated with acanthocytosis. Acantha is a Greek word for thorn and it is fitting that it is given to name the spur cells that have projections of different sizes which are the acanthocytes. These cells appear to be contracted, irregular, and dense. The formation of these cells depends on the alteration of the fat composition and the fluidity of red cell's membrane.
10047	The mean age of the start of chorea-acanthocystosis or ChAc is approximately at age 35. There are a few cases, though, where it can occur as early as the initial decade or it can be as late as the 70th year of life. It runs a persistent progressive course and it may end up as a major disability in just a few years. Some patients become dependent on wheelchairs or become bedridden just on the third decade. It is certain that the individual's life expectancy will be reduced; there are even cases of unexplained or sudden deaths when the patient goes through an epileptic seizure. The range of the patients' ages at death is at 28-61 years.
10048	Acanthocytosis-Neurologic disorder, also known as neuroacanthocytosis, is a rare automsomal recessive disorder. This disease is characterized by muscle degeneration due to uncontrolled muscle movements and dysfunctional red blood cells. This disease usually begins during early adulthood.
10049	Acanthosis Nigricans is a dermatological condition where the skin appears to be brown to black in color. It also appears to be poorly defined, often velvety and is considered to be a state of hyperpigmentation. This is usually present in the lateral and posterior folds of the groin, the neck, the axilla, the umbilicus, and also some other areas. The changes on the skin's pigment are the sole signs of acanthosis nigricans. It can be noticed that it appears very slowly (sometimes it can take months or years). It is very rare that the affected areas may itch. This condition can begin at any age but it is more evident among darker-skinned individuals.
10050	Acanthotic nevus is an alternate name for seborrheic keratosis. It is a rare skin disease that consists of discolored lesions that appear to be oily. Since these lesions seem to be stuck on the epidermis, they are sometimes mistaken for cancerous growths. Acanthotic nevus develops usually on people who are above the age of 40. Among the symptoms of this disease is itching, swelling of lesions as well as irritability. Surgical treatment may be needed to remove the lesions.
10051	Accessory pancreas is a medical condition that is rare and in which there are little clusters of pancreatic cells that are distinct from the pancreas. This condition could occur in the mesentery of small intestines, duodenal walls, the upper portion of the jejunum or, in its rarest form-in the stomach walls, spleen, ileum or gallbladder. Accessory pancreas was first observed and described in 1859 by Klob.
10052	Accutane embryopathy is a set of congenital defects incurred by an infant due to the mother's intake of the drug accutane. An infant with accutane embryopathy is borne with malformations in the face and internal organs and abnormalities in the central nervous system. Pregnant women are likewise advised not to take accutane during pregnancy, and as well consume vitamin A-rich foods to maintain healthy skin.
10053	Achalasia also called esophageal achalasia; cardiospasm, achalasia cardiae; dyssynergia esophagus or esophageal aperistalsis; is an esophageal motility disease. This disorder manifests an impaired peristalsis of the smooth muscle level of the esophagus. Peristalsis is the term used to describe the muscular capability of the esophagus to make the food move down to the stomach). Also, a patient with achalasia has a lower esophageal sphincter or LES that cannot relax which is its normal response to swallowing. The most common form of this disorder is primary achalasia. This form has no recorded underlying cause. Esophageal cancer (Chagas disease in South America) could be a result of achalasia.
10054	The Achard Thiers syndrome, also called the Diabetic Bearded Woman syndrome or diabete des femmes a barbe, is a rare disease which occurs commonly among women who are in their postmenopausal stage. Its name was derived from the combination of the names of Joseph Thiers and Emile Achard. This is characterized by insulin-resistant type 2 diabetes mellitus (an example is glucosuria) and also indications of excess in androgen. This syndrome has the combined features of Cushing syndrome and Adrenogenital syndrome. It is a form of virilizing disease which is adrenocortical in origin. And since androgen is excessive on this disease, the common manifestations are masculinization (the voice pitch is lowered) and menstrual disorders (the menstrual flow can be sparse or non-existent). There are also cases of growth of 'manly hair' all over the body. The most common complication of this disorder is hirsutism.
10055	Acheiropodia is a disorder that is autosomal recessive in nature and which results into hemimelia (or the lack of distal extremities formation). This is an inborn defect consisting of aplasia of the patient's feet and hands and also distal lower and upper extremities bilateral amputations. This disease is found almost solely in Brazil. Other terms for this disorder include Acheiropody, Horn Kolb syndrome and Aleijadinhos (the Brazilian kind).
10056	Achilles Tendinitis is inflammation ans irritation of the Achilles tendon usually resulting due to sudden increase in the intensity or frequency of exercise.
10057	The Achilles tendon rupture is the damage of the large and fibrous cord that naturally connects the lower leg to the heel bone. The person may initially hear a snap followed by a sharp pain at the back of the ankle as well as in the lower leg. Such injuries may be improved with home treatment. However, more often than not, a surgical repair is required.
10058	Acholuric jaundice is a form of jaundice in which there is no bile in the urine. This is hereditary disorder in which bililrubin was not able to produce bile pigments causing now yellowish color on the organs and the skin.
10059	Marco Fraccaro was the very first person to observe and record the description of achondrogenesis in the year 1952. Fraccaro used this name in description of a stillborn female who was afflicted with acute micromelia and apparent changes on her histological cartilage. This term was then coined to characterize many more acute kinds of chondrodysplasia among humans. The conditions were invariably lethal on pre and post births. When the 70's came, researchers have concluded that the disorder is a part of a heterogenous cluster of chondrodysplasias that are fatal to neonates. Histological and radiological measures have distinguished the achondrogenesis type 1 (which is the Fraccaro-Houston-Harris kind) and the type 2 (or the Langer-Saldino kind). 1983 marked a new radiological category of the disease (Types 1-4). This was done by Gorlin and Whitley and was adapted by the McKusick catalog. This classification describes types 1 and 2 as having similar femoral cylinder indeces (or Clfemur which is calculated as the length of the femur bone divided by the range of the width of the same bone. Both kinds have stellate elongated bones and crenated ilia. Both types 1 and 2 are characterized by several rib fractures. Type 3 has ribs that are non-fractured, mushroom-stemmed elongated bones, halberd ilia, and a Clfemur 2.8 to 4.9. The last type (type 4) has sculpted ilia, long bones that are well-developed, non-fractured ribs and Clfemur measured at 4.9 to 8.0. The late 80's was the time when mutations on the collagen II structure were depicted to cause achondrogenesis type 3 (which might also correspond to type 2). At present, only 3 variants of the disorder have been identified and they are type IA or the Houston-Harris type; type IB (or the Parenti-Fraccaro type); and type II (or the Langer-Saldino type).
10060	Achondroplasia is a kind of autosomal disorder of the dominant genes which commonly causes dwarfism. Achondroplastic dwarfs are short in stature and their average height when they reach adulthood is at 123 centimeters (about 4 feet and 0.6 inches) for females and 131 centimeters (about 4 feet and 3.8 inches) for males.
10061	Achondroplastic Dwarfism is a medical condition characterized by the occurrence of the disturbance of the growth of the bones.
10062	Achromatopsia or ACHM is a condition where the patient is unable to perceive color. Although this name may also be used to refer to acquired defects such as cerebral achromatopsia or color agnosia, it normally refers to a congenital disorder of the vision which is autosomal recessive in nature. It can also be called rod monochromacy or total inborn color blindness. Patients with this kind of disorder manifest total absence of the cone cell activity through electroretinography. At least 4 causes are listed as congenital ACHM: ACHM2 and ACHM3; the third type is a cone photoreceptor transducin called GNAT2, ACHM4; the last cause is still unknown.
10063	Acid Beta-glucosidase deficiency is a rare genetic biochemical defect characterized by the lack of glucocerebrosidase enzyme in the body. This is usually presented by a greater tendency to form bruises, fatigue, femoral head necrosis and an enlarged abdomen. It is sometimes called Gaucher's disease.
10064	Acid Ceramidase deficiency, also known as Farber's disease, is a rare infantile disease that is characterized by multiple ceramide containing nodules underneath the skin. These nodules can cause swelling in the abdominal area, painful swelling of arteries and psychomotor retardation. No specific treatment is yet discovered to treat the disease.
10065	Acid maltase deficiency or AMD is a type of autosomal recessive disorder which is characterized by an extreme buildup of glycogen contained by vacuoles (in almost all cell types) that are lysosome-derived. Quantities of free extralysosomal glycogen that are in excess have also been depicted. AMD was first observed and described by JC Pompe in 1932 at Amsterdam. He reported a case of a baby girl, aged 7 months, who became chronically ill from what they believed to be pneumonia. The autopsy that was done later showed an uncommonly engorged heart but with normal valves. This condition was called cardiomegalia glycogenica diffusa by Pompe. He considered it as a disorder that is analogous to the von Gierke syndrome. This very first article was soon followed by reports that seemed similar. The two other authors described the children as afflicted with cardiomegaly and acute muscle weakness. They died in their early infancy. Their disease was linked to an excess in the deposition of glycogen in numerous tissues. This disorder was then named the Pompe disease and by the year 1957, it was typified as type 2 glycogenosis by GT Cori.
10066	Acid reflux is a result of the inflammation of the esophagus due to the presence of gastric acid coming from the stomach. It is commonly known as heartburn. Acid reflux can be treated by weight loss management and medications that help reduce gastric acid production, as well as surgical procedures.
10067	Isovaleric Acidemia or isovaleric aciduria is an autosomal metabolic illness which prevents or disturbs the normal metabolism of branched-chain amino acid leucine. It is a traditional form of organic academia.
10068	Propionic acidemia also known as propionic aciduria or ketotic glycinemia is an uncommon metabolic disorder which is characterized by the deficiency of propionyl CoA carboxylase (an enzyme that is involved in breaking down the amino acids). It is categorized as branched-chain organic acidemia which often presents symptoms early on in the neonatal period which comes with progressive encephalopathy.
10069	Acinetobacter refers to a particular group of bacteria that is commonly found in soil as well as in water. It can also thrive in the healthy skins of people, especially among healthcare personnel, causing all types of diseases. The acinetobacter infection is mostly contracted inside a healthcare facility.
10070	Athletes are more likely to suffer from anterior cruciate ligament injury or ACL, but quite uncommon for the general public who are not subjected to strenuous physical activities. An anterior cruciate is one of the two ligaments that crosses in the middle of the knee, connecting the thighbone and the shinbone. Hard twisting or some sudden stop while landing, running or a direct blow to the knee can injure the ACL.
10071	Acne vulgaris or just acne is a common skin disease which is caused by changes on the pilosebaceous units (structures of the skin which consist of sebaceous gland and a hair follicle). The severe cases of acne are often inflamed but it can also show up as non-inflamed. Lesions are common and they are called spots, zits or pimples. This condition is common during the stage of puberty (affecting about 85% of teeners) while some cases carry on to adulthood. Most acne cases diminish and then disappear over time and this begins during the early twenties of an individual's life. There are no means of predicting when the disease will totally disappear because some cases continue even when the person is already in his thirties or forties. Acne is an altered form of the Greek word akun (or skin eruption). The vernacular name bakne or bacne is used often to specify acne that is found at the back of a person.
10072	Acne Cystic otherwise known as the nodulocystic acne or the pseudo scars, is a medical condition that refers to an acne that usually developed into a small cysts.
10073	Acne keloidalis nuchae typically develops and affects the back of the head as well as the nape. This is caused by the hairs that grow into skin causing an inflammation and scarring. This condition has been found to be most common among people with curly and stiff hairs.
10074	Acne rosacea or simply Rosacea is a very common condition which affects over 45 million people all over the world. Although common, it is a misunderstood condition. This often affects white-skinned individuals who are of northwestern European descent. This has been nicknamed as the 'Celtic curse' by some Irish people. This often begins as mere redness and flushing (erythema) right on the center of the face, also the cheeks, forehead and the nose. It can also affect the chest and the neck. As this disorder progresses, other signs come up such as erythema that is semi-permanent; telangiectasia (or the opening of the surface facial blood vessels); small bumps or domed pustules; reddish gritty eyes, stinging or burning sensations, and the most advanced cases manifest rhinophyma or lobulated nose. This disorder is often confused with seborrheic dermatitis or acne vulgaris. It can co-exist with these two conditions and it can affect both sexes (with females thrice more vulnerable). This peaks on the age of 30 to 60. the primary diagnosis of this disease is mainly facial and when the ears or the scalp become involved, it is a suggestion of a different illness.
10075	Acoustic neuroma also known as a vestibular schwannoma is a primary intracranial tumor that is benign. This is a tumor of the cells that form myelin of the CN VIII or vestibulocochlear nerve. Neuroma is a derivation of a Greek word which means 'tumor of the nerve'. The name 'acoustic' is a misnomer because the tumor hardly occurs from the cochlear or acoustic part of the vestibulocochlear nerve. The precise medical name is vestibular schwannoma. This is because it engages the vestibular part of the eighth cranial nerve and it occurs from schwann cells (the cells that are responsible for the peripheral nervous system myelin sheath).
10075	Acoustic neuroma is a medical condition that is characterized by the growth of a tumor that usually develops in nerves near the ear. is a benign, usually slow-growing tumor that develops from certain nerves in the inner ear. No one knows exactly what causes acoustic neuroma. As an acoustic neuroma develops, it presses against the nerves related to balance and hearing, causing early symptoms such as: one-sided or high-tone hearing loss, ringing in the ear, dizziness, and problems with balance. Once a diagnosis of acustic neuroma is made, the doctor can describe the available treatment options.
10076	Ichthyosis is an inherited disorder of the skin. This disorder is an extreme type of ichthyosis which can afflict both sexes all over the world. When this disease is acquired because of a causal disorder, although, it is very rare; it is still not known how this occurs. But there are studies that claim that it can result from mutations of the genes. The mutated genes can be passed from one generation onto the next. The mutation is believed to cause the abnormality in the skin's standard lifecycle. Normal people shed dead skin cells unnoticed but patients of ichthyosis produce new cells of the skin at a rate where their rate of shedding could not cope. This way, there is a dead skin cell buildup and the patient's skin would then appear to be dry or scaly. Acquired ichthyosis often occurs in adulthood. It could occur before or after a systemic condition diagnosis.
10077	Acquired immune deficiency syndrome also termed as acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS) is a compilation infections and symptoms that result from a specific damage to an individual's immune system. This is caused by the human immunodeficiency virus (or HIV) and other similar viruses such as SIV or FIV. The late phase of HIV and AIDS exist to slow down the viral progression. Currently, there is still no cure for this illness. AIDS can be transmitted through direct contacts of the bloodstream or of a mucous membrane with any of the body fluids such as semen, blood, vaginal fluid, breast milk, or preseminal fluid. The modes of transmission could be sexual intercourse, blood transfusion, oral sex, anal sex, or a contact with hypodermic needles that are contaminated with the virus. Another unfortunate means of getting the virus is the exchange of fluids between the baby and its mother during pregnancy.
10078	Syphilis is a venereal medical condition which is and which comes in two categories: acquired or congenital. Acquired syphilis is further divided into sub-categories which are early and late. The early stage consists of the primary, secondary and the early latent less than two years of being infected. The late sub-category is described as late latent greater than two years, tertiary which includes gummatous, neurological and cardiovascular involvement, the two latter forms are also termed as quartenary syphilis.
10079	Acrocephaly is a rare congenital syndrome which is often characterized by a narrowing of the pulmonary valve, retardation of the patient's mental development, and a pointy skull (or the skull's loftiness). More often than not, the head of the patient appears cone-like. A term that is similar to acrocephaly is oxycephaly. Oxycephaly has features that are similar to acrocephaly such as the coronal sutre and other sutures that close prematurely. Oxycephaly is the most severe type of of all craniostenoses.
10080	Small growths of skin that develop in some people on the neck, face, groin and armpits are called skin tags or acrochordons. These skin tags do not become cancerous or malignant since they are harmless.
10081	Acrocyanosis refers to a condition where the hands, feet or even the face persistently appear to have cyanotic or blue discoloration. The bluish color is caused by the lowered oxygen levels on the patient's extremities (some areas that can also be affected are the nipples, just the nose, or lips). The condition may not only manifest the pallor on the extremities but this discoloration could be accompanied by feelings of numbness, pins and needles sensation, soreness or even pain. The toes or fingers could also appear to be shiny and the tight-skinned. Acrocyanosis could also cause vasomotor disturbance (such as in the case of Raynaud's disease). This is a disease of the arterioles of the hands and feet that are exposed which also involves unusual contraction of the arteriolar walls which are magnified by exposing the areas to cold. This exposure results into the blue, mottled skin, sweating of the feet or hands, and chilling. It has been observed that patients who suffer from acrocyanosis may have acquired this condition because of the occurrence of other conditions before it such as emotional or mental disturbance. Neurocirculatory asthenia could also be an underlying cause. This condition can be subdivided into two forms: acrocyanosis (non-benign) with a sign which could allude to a more chronic medical concern; and acrocyanosis (benign) which is the more common condition which requires very little, if any, medical treatment. Females who are in their 20's are more vulnerable to the illness. The good thing about this condition is, it can improve as the patient ages.
10082	Acrodermatitis enteropathica is an autosomal recessive disease which affects zinc metabolism. This is characterized by periorificial (in the region of natural orifices) and in the limbs (acral dermatitis), loss of hair (also known as alopecia), and diarrhea. Having acquired zinc deficiency is somewhat similar to acrodermatitis enteropathica because it, too, can be congenital. The other known terms for acrodermatitis enteropathica are: Brandt syndrome, congenital zinc deficiency, and Danbolt-cross syndrome.
10083	Acrodysostosis also known as acrodysplasia, Arkless-Graham, or Maroteaux-Malamut is defined as a very rare inborn skeletal illness which is marked by defects on the bones of feet, hands, and the nose. Retardation of the patient's learning and mental development is a common occurrence.
10084	Acrodysplasia or acrocephalosyndactyly is an uncommon medical condition which is often characterized by a bulbous nose, bony growths, and loose extra skin throughout infancy. This is also a very rare genetic disease. A synonymous word is acrocephalosyndactyly.
10085	Acrodystrophic neuropathy, also known as Morvan disease, is a rare autoimmune defect characterized by muscle malignancies, severe cramps, myotonia, delirium and insomnia. There are only about 14 recorded cases of the illness disease since it was first discovered.
10086	Acrofacial dysostosis or Nager syndrome is a term that was coined by Nager and DeReynier in 1948. This condition is described as a syndrome which involves the upper limbs and skull. The most ordinary type of acrofacial dysostosis is the Nager Type (NAFD) of the so-called pre-axial acrofacial dysostosis. Generally, the effects of Nager type acrofacial dysostosis are palpebral fissures that are down-slanted; micrognathia; coloboma of the lower eyelids; and absent or hypoplastic radii or thumbs.
10087	Acromegaly was derived from the Greek word 'akros' meaning 'extremities' or 'extreme' and 'megalos' which means 'large'. This is a syndrome which results as the pituitary gland has an overproduction of hGH or growth hormone following the closure of the epiphyseal plate. There are several disorders that could cause the pituitary gland to come up with this circumstance. Most of these conditions involve a tumor that produces GH which is derived from a distinctive cell type (called somatotrophs) and named pituitary adenoma.
10088	Acromicric dysplasia is a very rare inherited illness that is often characterized by unusually short feet and hands, retardation of the patient's growth and delays on bone maturation which lead to short stature, and mild abnormalities of the face. The face often appears with a happy or 'smiling' expression thus the descriptive word geleophysic which is derived from the Greek word 'gelios' which means 'laughing' and 'phylis' meaning 'nature'. Most of the number of cases for this illness has occurred in random for no obvious reason (sporadic). It has not been ruled out, though, that this is an autosomal dominant inherited disorder. The disease database clearly indicates that acromicric dysplasia is similar to Geleophysic dwarfism (also known as Geleophysic dysplasia) and Focal mucopolysaccharidosis.
10089	Acromicric skeletal dysplasia is a rare genetic disorder that features unusually short hands and feet. Patients with this disease may suffer from slow development and delayed bone growth that often leads to a short stature with facial deformities. No treatments yet are found for this disorder.
10090	Acrophobia is derived from the Greek word 'akpoc' which means 'summit'. This phobia is described as the irrational dread of high places. This belongs to a certain category of phobias which are called motion and space discomfort (these two share like etiology and choices of treatment). This phobia could become very dangerous because those who suffer from it could experience attacks of panic when on a high place. As a result, they could become so agitated and they would have troubles getting themselves down to the ground safely. Vertigo is often associated or link with acrophobia and it is sometimes misconstrued as the phobia itself. The former is a feeling of nausea which is correctly described as a sensation of being spun. Vertigo can be caused by acrophobia when the person gets to a high place and then experience nausea. This type of vertigo that is triggered by heights is referred to as height vertigo.
10091	ACTH deficiency or isolated adrenocorticotropic hormone deficiency is a disorder which arises from a decrease or absence of the production of adrenocorticotropic hormone (also known as ACTH hormone). The pituitary gland is the one which produces this hormone. A decrease on the concentration of adrenocorticotropic in a person's blood would lead to reduced adrenal hormone secretions. This reduction of secretion of adrenal hormones could result into hypoadrenalism or adrenal deficiency. Adrenal insufficiency would then lead to loss of weight, a lack of appetite or anorexia nervosa (which is also a psychological disorder), nausea, weakness, vomiting, and hypotension or low blood pressure. Other uncommon symptoms include the lack or absence of pubic hair in some female patients; the lack or absence armpit hairs; having pale skin. These symptoms can be so general that is why proper diagnosis is often totally missed or delayed. For this reason, some physicians tend to believe that the disorder could be more common than had been previously thought.
10092	Sometimes known as "sailor's lip" or "farmer's lip," actinic cheilitis is a precancerous condition related to cumulative lifetime sun exposure. People with this disorder often complain of cracking of the lips and persistent dryness where the lower lip is most often affected.
10093	Actinic keratosis also known as solar keratosis, even AK is a premalignant condition of the skin where the signs include crusty, scaly, thick patches. This disorder is common among fair-skinned individuals who are often exposed under the sun (white people have less protection from their skin's pigment). This condition is often accompanied by damage made by the sun. Since a few of these are pre-cancer carcinomas, they should be attended to immediately. When a person's skin is exposed under the sun, the signs such as crustiness and thickness begin to appear. These bumps are often rough and dry and they start out as flat areas but soon develop into something tough which often resembles a wart. Actinic keratosis is about 2.0-6.0 mm. in range and they can be light or dark, pink or tan, it can even be red in color or it can be a combination of all the mentioned colors. It could appear on the areas that are exposed under the sun such as the chest, back, ears, neck, face, scalp, forearms, hands, and lips.
10094	Actinomycetales infection is an infection which is bacterial in nature. This comes from the order of actinobacteria. The alternate names for this type of infection are: actinomycete infection; actinomycetales infection; or actinomycte infection.
10095	Actinomycosis (pronounced ak-tuh-nuh-my-KOH-sihs) is a rare and infectious bacterial disease among humans. This is generally caused by Propionibacterium propionicus and actinoyces israelii, A.gerencseriae. This condition is unlikely a polymicrobial infection. Actinomycosis is a sub-acute to chronic bacterial disease which is caused by the filamentous, anaerobic to microaerophilic, and gram positive bacteria that are non-acid fast.
10096	Activated protein C resistance is a hemostatic disease which is characterized by a reduced anticoagulant response to APC or activated protein C. The result is a heightened risk of venous thrombosis. The activated protein C resistance or APCr was first studied and reported by Dahlback in 1993. Activated protein C with protein S as its co-factor degrades Factor VIIIa and Factor Va. Activated protein C resistance is the failure of protein C to cleave Factor VIIIa and/or Factor Va. This permits for a longer extent of thrombin generation and could proceed to the hypercoabulable phase. The most common form of hereditary resistance to activated protein C is Factor V Leiden. Acquired types occur together with elevated concentrations of Factor VIII. It has been evaluated that up to 64% of people who are afflicted with venous thromboembolism could also have activated protein C resistance.
10097	Acutane embryopathy is a rare disease that is caused by exposure of the fetus to retinoids and which often results into physical and mental defects at birth.
10098	Acute articular rheumatism is a rare and non-contagious medical condition brought about by a bacterial joint infection that can possibly come with a heightened risk of the development of heart complications. Adults are the common victims affected by this disease. However, statistics have shown that less than 200, 000 Americans are afflicted with this condition, which explains why it is categorized as a rare disease.
10099	Acute Beryllium Disease, also known as acute berylliosis, is the inflammation of the lungs due to exposure to beryllium.
10100	Acute Bronchitis is a medical condition that is characterized by the inflammation of the large bronchi tubes in the lungs.
10101	Also known as the Abt-Letterer-Siwe disease, acute disseminated histiocytosis-X is a rare progressive kind of hystiocytosis. In this condition, high levels of histiocytosin are found in the bone marrow, causing deterioration of the organ issues. This illness difficult to treat, and is linked with diabetes insipidius.
10102	Acute erythroblastic leukemia is also known by other medical terms such as erythremic myelosis, erythroleukemia and the DiGuglielmo syndrome, which is the uncontrolled production of immature and undeveloped erythrocytes, more popularly known as the red blood cells. This type of leukemia is a rare form of cancer that originates from the marrow and blood.
10103	Acute febrile neutrophilic dermatosis is more popularly known as Sweet's syndrome, which is a type of skin disorder characterized by sudden appearance of painful skin lesions and fever. This condition often appear on the patient's back, face, arms or neck and red bumps may rapidly increase in size and can possibly progress to blisters.
10104	Acute gouty arthritis is characterized as sudden pain attacks in the joints, most especially in the legs and feet due to the buildup of uric acid in the joints. Gout is generally caused by an abnormality in the individual's metabolism which results to the proliferation if uric acid that consequently reduced the ability of the kidney to get rid of the uric acid. Patients suffering from sickle cell anemia, diabetes and obesity as well as kidney disorders are among the people who are most likely to develop acute gouty arthritis.
10105	Acute idiopathic polyneuritis, also known as Gullain-Barre syndrome (GBS), is a rare but progressive paralyzing disorder of the peripheral nerves.
10106	Acute intermittent porphyria is a very rare metabolic disorder that is characterized by an abnormal deficiency of porphobilinogen deaminase enzyme that would result to the buildup of polyphyrins. This medical condition is inherited and is passed on from one generation to another.
10107	Acute kidney failure is characterized by the sudden loss of the ability of the kidneys to perform its normal functions, which includes eliminating the excess waste and fluid from the blood. When the kidney is damaged and losses its filtering capability, a highly dangerous level of fluid may accumulate in the body.
10108	Acute liver failure is considered a serious medical emergency that typically occurs when the liver rapidly loses the ability to function. This medical condition gradually develops through the years due to some factors such as alcohol abuse and hepatitis virus. This condition requires immediate medical attention since lack of treatment can prove to be highly fatal
10109	Acute lymphoblastic leukemia, otherwise known as acute lymphocytic leukemia is another form of cancer of the white blood cells. In this case, the immature and malignant white blood cells continues to multiply in an abnormally rapid thereby causing overproduction in the bone marrow. This disease causes damage and death by actively crowding out the Bone marrow's normal cells and spread to the other organs in the body. ALL is found to be common among children and young adults.
10110	Acute monoblastic leukemia otherwise known as acute monocytic leukemia is an acute type of myeloid leukemia. For patients to be considered a victim of AML-M5, he must have more than 20% blasts in the marrow. Monoblasts are largely distinguished for displaying a rough, circular nucleus and a delicate lacy chromatin.
10111	Acute mountain sickness, or more popularly known as altitude sickness is a pathological condition which is caused by exposure to very low air pressure. This is common in outdoors with high altitudes, usually above 8,000 feet. This is caused by a reduction of partial pressure in the oxygen.
10112	Acute myelocytic leukemia (AML) is known to be the most common type of leukemia, which is found in adults, although people pf all ages can be affected by this serious medical condition. In AML, underdeveloped leukemia cells accumulate in the patient's bone marrow, thereby causing the destruction and replacement of cells that would produce normal blood cells.
10113	Acute necrotizing ulcerative gingivitis or ANUG is characterized as a plymicrobial infection of the patient's gums that normally leads to bleeding, inflammation, necrotic gum tissue and deep ulcerations. Patients with this condition also suffer from fever and halitosisi. ANUG is also known as Vincent's angina, a popular term whioch was coined in WW1 when a great number of soldiers suffered from this condition.
10114	Acute pancreatitis is characterized as the rapid onset of inflammation of the pancreas. Depending on the severity of the condition, serious complications and high mortality occur despite treatment. This disease is usually prevalent among individuals with bile duct obstruction of prolonged alcohol abuse.
10115	Acute Pancreatitis is a medical condition whereby there is an inflammation of the pancreas.
10116	Acute posterior multifocal placoid pigment epitheliopathy (APMPPE) is a unusual form of eye disease that mostly affects Caucasia people ranging from ages 20-30 years old. This medical condition is characterized by a patient's central vision either in one or both eyes is affected or vision is completely lost due to inflammation a at thed the buildup of fluid in the back of the eye.
10117	Acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL) is a known subtype of AML or acute myologenous leukemia, which is a form of cancer of the bone marrow and the blood. APL patients suffer from the abnormal accumulation of underdeveloped granulocytes . APL is characterized as a disorder brought about by chromosomal translocation.
10118	Acute renal failure is more popularly known as acute kidney failure or injury, and is characterized by the rapid loss of renal utility that causes serious damage to the kidney. Depending on the durationg and the extent of the condition, the accumulation may also be accompanied with metabolic disturbances such as acidification of the blood, fluid balance changes and elevated postassium levels. This is a serious medical condition that requires immediate medical attention.
10119	Acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS), also known as respiratory distress syndrome (RDS) or adult respiratory distress syndrome, is a serious reaction to various forms of injuries to the lung. This is the most important disorder that is caused by an increased permeability pulmonary edema. ARDS is a severe lung disease caused by different direct and indirect issues. It is marked by inflammation of the lung parenchyma leading to impaired gas exchange with concomitant systemic release of inflammatory mediators causing inflammation, hypoxemia and frequently resulting in multiple organ failure. This condition is life threatening and often lethal, typically requiring mechanical ventilation and admission to an intensive care unit. A less severe form of this disease is called acute lung injury (ALI). ARDS most commonly signified adult respiratory distress syndrome to differentiate it from infant respiratory distress syndrome in premature infants. However, as this type of pulmonary edema also arises in children, ARDS has gradually shifted to mean acute rather than adult. The differences with the typical infant syndrome remain the same.
10120	Acute sinusitis is characterized by the inflammation of the nose and nasal passages that interferes with the normal drainage of the mucus in the sinuses. This causes difficulty in breathing with the throbbing sensation across the face, accompanied by headaches, and nagging coughs.
10121	Acute toxic epidermolysis is a rare immunological defect that affects the skin. In this condition blisters develop on the skin and causes excessive peeling; the dermis then becomes more exposed to heat and substances and may resort to scalding.
10122	Acute tubular necrosis (ATN) is a medical condition involving the death of tubular cells that form the tubule that transports urine to the ureters while reabsorbing 99% of the water, highly concentrating the salts and metabolic byproducts. Tubular cells continually replace themselves, and if the cause of ATN is taken out, then recovery is likely. ATN presents with acute renal failure and is one of the most frequent causes of ARF. The presence of "muddy brown casts" of epithelial cells present in the urine during urinalysis is pathognomonic for ATN. ATN may be classified as either toxic or ischemic. Toxic ATN arises when the tubular cells are exposed to a toxic substance (nephrotoxic ATN). Ischemic ATN occurs when the tubular cells do not get adequate amounts of oxygen, a condition they are highly sensitive to due to their very high metabolism.
10123	ACY2 deficiency is a genetic disorder that features a spongy degeneration of the central nervous system. The signs that indicate the onset of the disease begin at infancy, usually characterized by progressive mental decline and rapid loss of head control, balance and coordination. Patients with the disease have an abnormally large head due to swelling. This disease is caused by an abnormal mutation in the ASPA gene that makes the cells unable to produce an important enzyme for brain and muscle development, aspartocylase.
10124	Medium Chain Acyl-CoA Dehydrogenase Deficiency (MCADD) is a rare hereditary disease that is the result of the lack of an enzyme required to convert fat to energy. People with MCADD cannot refrain from eating for very long. Fasting starts after the body has used all the food that the person has eaten, then begins to use the body's own fat to make energy. When people with MCADD fast, they can experience a variety of serious life threatening symptoms or even death. Persons with MCADD cannot utilize this fat to make energy, consequently, the body begins to fail and malfunction once the food the person has eaten runs out.
10125	Very-Long-Chain Acyl-CoA Dehydrogenase Deficiency (VLCADD) is a rare autosomal recessive condition in which the body fails to oxidize fatty acids because an enzyme is either missing or not functioning correctly. Long-chain 3-hydroxy acyl-coenzyme A dehydrogenase (LCHAD) is 1 of 3 enzymatic activities that comprise the trifunctional protein of the inner mitochondrial membrane. The other 2 activities of the protein are long-chain 3-ketoacyl CoA thiolase (LCKT) and 2-enoyl coenzyme A (CoA) hydratase (LCEH). The protein is an octamer made up of 4 alpha subunits that contain the LCEH and LCHAD activities, and 4 beta subunits that contain the LCKT activity. This enzyme complex helps metabolize long-chain fatty acids, and the LCHAD activity is specific for compounds of C12-C16 chain length. The genes for the alpha and beta subunits have been traced to chromosome 2. Affected infants with LCHAD deficiency, which is inherited as an autosomal recessive trait, arise in infancy with acute hypoketotic hypoglycemia. These episodes usually appear for the first time after a fast, which usually occurs in the context of intercurrent illness with vomiting.
10126	Short Chain Acyl-CoA Dehydrogenase Deficiency (SCADD) is a condition in which the body fails to oxidize fatty acids because an enzyme is either missing or not functioning correctly. Short-chain acyl-coenzyme A (CoA) dehydrogenase deficiency (SCAD) is a rare condition that stops the body from converting certain fats into energy, especially during periods without food (fasting). People affected with this disorder are not able to break down a certain group of fats called short-chain fatty acids efficiently. Some affected infants will display vomiting, low blood sugar (hypoglycemia), a lack of energy (lethargy), poor feeding, and failure to gain weight and grow at the expected rate (failure to thrive). Other features of this disorder may include poor muscle tone (hypotonia), developmental delays, seizures, and a small head size (microcephaly). The symptoms of short-chain acyl-CoA dehydrogenase deficiency may be activated by periods of fasting or during illnesses such as viral infections. In some cases, signs and symptoms may not exhibit themselves until adulthood, when some individuals may develop muscle weakness and wasting. Other people with gene mutations that can lead to this disorder may have such mild symptoms that they are never diagnosed.
10127	Ad14 otherwise known as the Adenovirus Serotype 14 medical condition that is said to be a mutated form of the common cold.
10128	Addiction was a term used to describe an attachment, devotion, dedication, inclination, etc. Nowadays, however, the term addiction is used to describe a recurring compulsion by an individual to engage in some specific activity, despite harmful consequences to the individual's health, social life, or mental state. The term is often reserved for drug addictions but it is sometimes applied to other compulsions, such as compulsive overeating and problem gambling. Factors that have been suggested as causes of addiction include biological/pharmacological, genetic, and social factors.
10129	Addison Anemia is a medical condition caused by the malabsorption of Vitamin B-12 and is relatively common form of anemia.
10130	Addison's disease (also known as chronic adrenal insufficiency, hypocortisolism or hypocorticism) is a rare endocrine disorder in which the adrenal gland produces inadequet amounts of steroid hormones (glucocorticoids and often mineralocorticoids). It may arise in children as well as adults, and may occur as the result of a large number of underlying causes. The condition is named after Dr Thomas Addison, the British physician who initially described the condition in his 1855 On the Constitutional and Local Effects of Disease of the Suprarenal Capsules. The adjective "Addisonian" is used for features of the condition, as well as individuals with Addison's disease. The condition is typically diagnosed with blood tests, medical imaging and additional investigations. Treatment is with replacement of the certain hormones (oral hydrocortisone and fludrocortisone). If the disease is the result of an underlying problem, this is addressed. Regular follow-up and monitoring for other health problems is required.
10131	Adducted thumb syndrome recessive form, also known as Christian syndrome or Craniostenosis arthrogryposis cleft palate, is a rare disease that affects multiple systems which causes malformations of the palate, thumbs, and upper limbs.
10132	Mesenteric adenitis is characterized as an inflammation of the mesenteric lymph nodes found in the abdomen. If the inflammation is found in the right lower quadrant, most people would mistake it as appendicitis but is often preceded by sore throat.
10133	Adenocarcinoma of the lung (or lung cancer) is the leading cause of cancer deaths in both women and men in the United States and throughout the world. Lung cancer has beaten breast cancer as the leading cause of cancer deaths in women. In 2007, 160,390 people were projected to die from lung cancer in the United States, which is more than the number of deaths from colorectal, breast, and prostate cancer combined. Only about 2% of those diagnosed with lung cancer that has spread to other areas of the body are living five years after the diagnosis, although the survival rates for lung cancers diagnosed at a very early stage are higher, with approximately 49% surviving for five years or longer. Cancer arises when normal cells undergo a transformation that causes them to grow and multiply without the normal controls. The cells form a mass or tumor that varies from the surrounding tissues from which it arises. Tumors are dangerous because they take nutrients, oxygen, and space from healthy cells.
10134	Adenoid cystic carcinoma (ACC) is an uncommon form of malignant neoplasm that develops within secretory glands, most commonly the major and minor salivary glands of the head and neck. Other sites of origin include the trachea, lacrimal gland, skin, breast, and vulva. This neoplasm is defined by its characteristic histologic appearance. Adenoid cystic cancer (AdCC) is a very rare type of cancer that can develop in many different body sites. It most often arises in the areas of the head and neck, in particular the salivary glands; but has also been reported in the breast, lacrimal gland of the eye, lung, brain, bartholin gland, and the trachea. It is sometimes known as adenocyst, adenocystic, malignant cylindroma, adenoidcystic, ACC, AdCC.
10135	Adenoma is characterized as a collection ogu growth that is glandular in origin. Adenomas usually grow in major body organs such as the adrenal, pituitary, thyroid and colon. These growths are usually benign in nature but can progress into malignant over. While it can be ntbenign, it can also present some potentially serious complications by mass effect and production of large volumes of hormones.
10136	Adrenal adenomas are categorized as benign or a non-cancerous form of tumour of the adrenal gland. It can arise from the gland's outer layer or what is known as as the adrebal cortez. Ig the adenoma produces hormones, it is considered as a functioning adenoma and non-functioning for adenomas that do not produce hormones.
10137	Adenomyosis is more popularly known as amenorrhea, and is characterized as a serious health complication among women that consist of the detection of an ectopic endometrial tissue, which normally lines the uterus, are found to extend into the muscular and fibrous tissue of the uterus.There are two known types of adenomyosis-primary and secondary. This disorder may coexist along with external endometriosis.
10138	Adenosine Deaminase Deficiency (ADA) is a highly rare genetic disorder and is categorized as a form of severe combined immunodeficiency that largely affects body's immune system. To date, there are only about a dozen documented cases of ADA deficiency. This genetic disease is known to be quite fatal, and often lead to death if afflicted patients do not seek treatment. People who have this disease usually lead a sheltered life and live in enclosed environment to prevent exposure to infectious agents.
10139	Adenosine monophosphate deaminase (AMD) is a type of muscle-specific deficiency that is a common cause of many exercise-induced myopathy and is one of the most common causes of metabolic myopathy among human beings.
10140	Adenoviruses are among the most common cause of respiratory illnesses. People who already have a compromised immune system can become more susceptible to developing more serious medical conditions when exposed to this type of virus.
10141	Adenylosuccinase deficiency is an autosomal recessive disease that affects purine synthesis. Among the main features of this disease are slow development of psychomotor skills as well as epileptic seizures and autism. It can be detected by means of testing abnormal purine metabolites present in body fluids. There is no cure available yet for the disorder.
10142	Adenylosuccinate lyase deficiency is a type of disorder of the purine metabolism that affects patients both behaviorally and biochemically. Patients afflicted with this disorder normally have autistic features and display some mild psychomotor delays.
10143	An adhesion is a band of fibrous tissue that binds the unconnected anatomic surfaces, which are separated from each other. It develops commonly in the abdomen after trauma or injury. Sometimes it is a congenital defect like the obstruction of the intestine.
10144	Adhesive capsulitis is also known as frozen shoulders, a condition that is characterized by the abnormal stiffness and pain on the shoulder joint area. As the condition progresses and worsens, the individual will experience a limited range of motion. This condition usually affects one shoulder at a time.
10145	Adie syndrome, sometimes reffered to as Adie's Tonic Pupil or Holmes-Adies Syndrome is categorized as a neurological disorder that affects the autonomic nervous system and the pupil of the patient's eye. It causes damage to the postganglionic fibers of the eye that is usually brought about by bacterial or viral infection.
10146	Adiposis dolorosa, is also known as Dercum's disease and Ander's disease, which is a type of a rare disease that is characterized by some multiple painful lipomas that usually arise in adult life. Among the individuals commonly afflicted with this disease are those who are also battling with obesity and occurs on both men and women.
10147	Adrenal cancer is a very rare disease that begins in the patient's adrenal glands, which is located on the top section of the kidneys. The tumors can rapidly increase the production of hormones. The good news is about 99% of adrenal tumors are non-cancerous and would not normally require any form of treatment when small in size. It does not produce any detectable symptoms which is why patients diagnosed with this disorder find out about this condition purely by accident in other examination for completely unrelated diseases.
10148	Congenital adrenal hyperplasia (CAH) generally refers to several autosomal recessive medical conditions that are results from some biochemical pathway of the steroidogenesis of the cortisol from cholesterol by the patient's adrenal glands. Majority of these conditions involve lesser or greater production of sex steroids and can also greatly alter the development of primary and secondary sex characteristics in affected individuals.
10149	There are four types of congenital adrenal hypoplasia that have been recognized and they are the following: an X-linked type or the OMIM 300200 which is caused by a deletion or mutation of the AHCH gene or the DAX1 gene (found in the X chromosome dosage-receptive sex reversal adrenal hypoplasia congenital vital region). This type is often linked with hypogonadotropic hypogonadism. It might be a component of an adjacent deletion of chromosome (this may include congenital adrenal hypoplasia, OMIM 310200 or the Duchenne muscular dystrophy and OMIM 307030 or glyce3rol kinase deficiency; the second type is the autosomal recessive type and it is caused by a deletion or mutation of the gene which is responsible for coding for SF-1 or steroidogenic factor 1 on OMIM 184757 or chromosome 9q99. This type is also linked with hypogonadotropic hypogonadism; The third type is an autosomal recessive type. This type has a vague etiology (or OMIM 240200); The fourth type of adrenal hypoplasia which is linked with the retardation of intrauterine growths, genital defects, and metaphysical dysplasia is the OMIM 300290 or the IMAGe (intrauterine growth retardation, metaphysical dysplasia, adrenal hypoplasia congenital, genital defects) association. The X-linked type adrenal hypoplasia congenital is a disease which is mainly acquired by males. It usually involves several endocrine tissues of the body most especially the gmall glands above the kidneys or the adrenal glands. The characteristics that often manifest are a reduction in the function of the adrenal gland; hypoglycemia; dehydration, feeding difficulties; and shock. Other male patients might also be sexually underdeveloped. The females who are rarely affected also have adrenal insufficiency and a deficiency of sex hormones.
10150	An adrenal incidentaloma is an adrenal mass which is seen during the imaging for other causes that are non-adrenal related. This means that the lesion was discovered serendipitously. Adrenal incidentaloma is the most common adrenal disorder and it is found during 1-5% of CT scans for the abdomen. 5-10% of patients who are diagnosed with adrenal incidentaloma have masses that are non-functioning (this is based on postmortem examinations). This disease affects both males and females with most of the incidentalomas being hormonally inactive and benign. There are only a few numbers of cases where adrenalectomy is required (and this is done only when the lesion becomes functioning and malignant). The diagnostic assessment often evaluates the hormonal activity of the lesion and if it is malignant. Assessment of functions require plasma dihydroepiadosterone; urinary catecholamines for 24 hours and metanephrines; a low dosage of a test of dexamethasone suppression; serum ACTH; standing serum renin to aldosterone ration for hypertension and hypokalemia. The evaluation of the danger of malignancy requires MRI or CT scans; on CT lesions that are malignant are not regular, non-homogeneous and have great attenuation; for lesions that are MRI malignant, an clear concentration on T2 weighed image; it may also be useful to have CT guided cytology; there is also a need to exclude paechromocytoma before this procedure;
10151	There are two classifications for adrenal insufficiency and they are: primary and secondary. The primary adrenal insufficiency happens when the adrenal gland dysfunctions. The secondary adrenal insufficiency which is also named central adrenal insufficiency happens there is a lack of CRH secretion or the corticotrophin-releasing hormone from the hypothalamus; or it could be the lack of ACTH secretion which is the corticotropic hormone from the pituitary. The second type leads to adrenal cortex hypofunction. Further classifications include acquired and congenital.
10152	Adrenocortical carcinoma also called as ACC or adrenal cortical carcinoma and adrenal cortex cancer is a cancer that is aggressive which originates from the cortex (a tissue that produces steroid hormones) of the adrenal gland. Adrenocortical carcinoma is a tumor that is rare with an incidence of 1-2 in every 1,000,000 individuals annually. ACC has a bimodal allocation by age (most of the cases cluster among children that are under the age of 6 and in adults at 30-40 years of age). ACC can result into many syndromes such as Cushing's syndrome, virilization, Conn syndrome, and feminization. It also commonly metastizes or invades neighboring tissues and the survival rate is estimated at only 20-35%.
10153	The more proper term for adrenogenital syndrome is congenital adrenal hyperplasia or CAH. This refers to numerous other autosomal recessive disor which result from biochemical paths of cortisol setoidogenesis from cholesterol done by the adrenal glands. Most number of these conditions could have lesser or greater sex steroid production and they can alter primary or secondary sex characteristic development among adults, children and infant patients. Only a few cases of people with CAH can be appropriated with intersex condition although this attracted the attention of the American public in the 90's and since then, there have been various accounts that have been circulated. It is estimated that 95% of CAH cases are caused by 21-hydroxylase deficiency. Conditions Caused by CAH The most common conditions that are caused by adrenogenital syndrome are: ambiguous genitals (in some female patients wherein it can be initially hard to know the exact sex of the infant); salt-wasting that causes vomiting (which may lead to dehydration and eventually-death); the early appearance of pubice or the occurrence failure or the delay of puberty (including sexual infantilism); too much facial hair; virilization; irregular menstrual periods during the adolescent stage; infertility caused by anovulation; and hypertension.
10154	Adrenoleukodystrophy is also known as ALD, Sudanophilic leukodystrophy and Schilder's disease. This is a rare disorder that is inherited which often leads to progressive damage of the brain, adrenal gland failure and eventually, death. ALD belongs to a group of disorders that are inherited which are called Leukodystrophies. Leukodystrophies often progressively destroy the myelin (a complex fatty neutral tissue which insulates numerous nerves of the peripheral and central nervous systems). The absence of myelin intensifies destruction. Patients of this disorder have a missing essential protein called the transporter protein. The transporter protein is needed in carrying an enzyme (the one used in breaking down long chain fatty acid in a normal person's diet). A long chain fatty acid accumulation can bring about brain damage and adrenal gland damage. Usually, the patients of ALD are males who inherit the X-linked disorder. Leudodystrophies are not similar to demyelinating diseases like multiple sclerosis where the myelin is normally formed but is eventually lost through immunologic dysfunction or for other causes.
10155	Adrenomyodystrophy is a rare genetic disease which is often characterized by chief adrenal insufficiency, acute psychomotor retardation, dystrophic myopathy, and an acutely swollen bladder which can result into death.
10156	Still's disease was first discovered as a type of juvenile idiopathic arthritis that is common among children but is now also discovered to have a few cases in adults. The adult type is called the adult onset Still's disease (or AOSD). AOSD was first described by an English doctor in 1971. The physician's name was Bywaters who is also famous for his work on the crush syndrome. There are varying theories as to the cause of Still's disease. There is a suggestion that it originated from a microbacterial infection. To this day, the cause of the illness remains unknown. It is more securely established that the disorder's pathogenesis is autoimmune.
10157	Adult Schizophrenia is considered to be one of the most complex of all identified mental health disorders. It is characterized by a severe and chronic, often disabling disturbance of the person's brain that causes distorted thinking, unusual strange feelings and disturbed behavior and use of language.
10158	Agammaglobulinemia is also called hypogammaglobulinemia. It is the most ordinary type of primary immunodeficiency which accounts to about 50% of all the cases. The three major kinds can be defined as: early onset, late onset, and X-linked. It was only after more than 50 years since the clinical manifestation was first recorded in 1952 by a certain Bruton. He described that the defect on the molecule in XLA or X-linked agammaglobulinemia has been explicated. To honor Bruton, the responsible gene was named Btk which means Bruton tyrosine kinase. It is estimated that 90% of the patients with the early-onset kind of agammaglobulinemia and the lack of B cells have defects on their Btk genes. The late-onset type is often referred to as the CVID or Common Variable Immunodeficiency. The last type is the early-onset non-Bruton agammaglobuliemia with absent or just low serum immunoglobulin (or Ig). Most of the cases are representative of a very heterogenous group which includes Ig deficiency with an increase in immunoglobulin M or hyper-IgM syndrome. There are also some infants who have an initial reading of low Ig level which soon increases to the normal level. This is named as Transient Hypogammaglobulinemia of infancy. Currently, the production of defective antibodies and the low circulation of a number of B cells were descriptive of some female infants and some males who do not have any Btk defects. These records imply the participation of other genes.
10159	Aganglionosis is a medical term used to describe absence of the ganglia or ganglion cells from the myenteric plexus.
10160	Agenesis of the corpus callosum is a rare congenital defect characterized by the absence of the corpus callosum, the protective tissue of the brain resulting to disconnection of the brain hemispheres.
10161	Ageusia is a medical state in which the tongue loses its ability to taste. In this condition the tongue can no longer differentiate sweetness from salt, sour, bitter and umami flavors. The taste buds may not appear to be swollen but the nerves of the tongue are no longer responsive to the stimuli. Ageusia is caused by neurological problems in the brain, lack of vitamin B3 in the endocrine system and side effects brought about by anti-rheumatic drugs.
10162	Aggressive fibromatosis is an unusual type of tumor that is locally persistent but not malevolent or malignant. Patient's symptoms will depend on the precise location and size of the tumor and also whether it reduces adjacent structures.
10163	Aging, also known as the cycle of life, is any form of change of an organism as time passes. There are many dimensions to aging such the physical, psychological, mental, and emotional aspects. For example, the time of reaction of a human being is lessened or slowed as he ages while his wisdom and knowledge of facts may improve. There should be a distinction between universal aging (where all people go through) and probabilistic aging (which is a type of aging that occurs only to some and not all individuals). An example of probabilistic aging is the manifestation of diabetes mellitus. Chronological aging refers to the actual age of an individual and it can clearly be distinguished from social aging (where the society expects people to behave in accordance to their age and status). The third type of aging is biological aging (which is the person's physical state as he ages). Age measurement is done through entire years or months in the case of infants. An individual's birthday is often a significant event. As to mental aging, it is a bit more challenging to categorize individuals under this type because an older person does not guarantee mental or emotional capacities that are greater than the younger generation.
10164	Agnogenic myeloid metaplasia is characterized as a condition that typically occurs when the bone marrow is scarred, resulting to its failure to function properly. With the reduced production from the bone marrow, the liver and the spleen will produce the necessary blood cells, causing it to become enlarged. This condition gradually develops through the years and often found in individuals over 50 years old.
10165	Agnosia or failure to know is a condition in which the person is unable to recognize objects, persons, sounds, shapes, or smells without any defective in a specific sense. There are different types of agnosia. The Autotopagnosia, the person is unable to identify the parts of the body. Visual agnosia the person cannot recognize a visual objects. Another type is Alexia, Inability to recognize text. We also have color agnosia, the patient has difficulty in distinguishing between color perception versus color recognition. Prosopagnosia also called as faceblindness or facial agnosia , the affected person is unable to recognize faniliar faces. Expressive agnosia is a type o g agnosia that the person cannot perceive different facial perception. Visual Verbal agnosia, the patient cannot understand spoken words. Auditory agnosia. The person can hear but unable to determine environmental and non-verbal auditory signs. Amusia, unable to identify music. Somatosensory agnosia or Astereognosia the patient is unable to identify object that is touch. Time Agnosia another type of agnosia that characterized with loss of comprehension of the time and duration of events. Apraxia or motor (body) agnosia it involves loss of ability to determine physical actions thus lead to repetitive of action.
10166	Agoraphobia is usually referred to as "fear of open spaces" though this explanation is simple and confusing. Agoraphobia is like an irrational fear or anxiety related with unknown environment or events or situations though this explanation also oversimplifies a complicated topic.. Panic attacks from panic disorder, usually causes agoraphobia to arise in several situations and the fear of places or situations happen when these were the reasons of the panic attacks. Agoraphobia in other words is the "fear of having another panic attack" or simply the fear of something or somewhere that may cause a panic attack. A violent sequence situates in where worry or fear of certain places or circumstances create a panic attack more possible to happen, which in turn elevates the level of anxiety. No matter what the explanation is, agoraphobia can not be only put pressure emotionally but it can really turn to be devastating which results to a life of self-imposed loneliness.
10167	Agyria which actually means smooth brain is an unusual brain formation disorder distinguished by the absence of normal folds in the brain. Malfunctioning neuronal movement is the cause of Agyria where in the nerve cells travel from their original place to their stable location. It is a kind of cephalic disorder. Convolutions or gyri refer to the folds in the brain and this forms the surface of the normal brain. Young patients who have Agyria has have a lack of or partially formed convolutions which makes the exterior of the brain smooth.
10168	Agyria pachygyria polymicrogyria is an abnormal development of the human brain distinguished by a huge amount of small folds or concolutions (gyri) on the exterior of the brain. The entire surface or other parts of the brain may be involved.
10169	Aicardi syndrome is an unusual abnormality syndrome distinguished by the lack of a major structure in the brain referred to as corpus callosum, the existence of abnormalities in the retina adn seizures in the form of immature spasms. An X-linked dominant trait is inherited in Aicardi syndrome that is fatal in males.
10170	Aichmophobia is the tremendous and unreasonable fear of being touched by a finger or any pointed materials or objects such as needles or injections.
10171	AIDS means Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome which means that the person may get infected by the disease and it will then cause a weakening of his system that resists or fights disease. The disease is caused by the Human Immunodeficiency Virus or HIV. When the person gets infected by the virus, and the body creates its own "antibodies" to fight off the infection, it is when he is called HIV positive. Thus, the person is called HIV positive when he has these HIV antibodies. However, being HIV positive is different from having AIDS. It is common to find HIV positive person who have lived for many years without getting AIDS although AIDS is generally developed from HIV. A person may get infected with HIV through different ways, such as through blood infection and through semen or vaginal fluids. Thus, having sex with a person with HIV, receiving blood or using the same syringe with the person with HIV may result into getting infected. A child usually gets infected with HIV if the mother has the virus. According to the Center for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) it is estimated that there are around 1.2 million persons in the US are infected with HIV virus or have AIDS. Despite the number, the death rate due to AIDS has been reduced significantly since the time when it was the leading cause of death in the 90s. This is because of the new treatments available at present. HIV becomes AIDS when the immune system of the person infected with HIV is severely damaged. Thus, a person with no more than 200 CD 4 cells (less than 14% CD4 cells) in his body has AIDS. IF the person has AIDS he is more likely to get Pneumocystis pneumonia (PC), a certain lung infection; a Kaposi's sarcoma, a skin cancer; a Cytomegalovirus or infection affecting the eyes and Candida or a fungal infection in the mouth or infections in the throat or vagina. These infections are called opportunistic infections or infections which take advantage of the weak immune system. There is no known cure for AIDS however, at present there are available drugs which slows then development or progress of the HIV virus. At the same time these drugs slows down the effect or the damage done by the HIV to the immune system. There are also other drugs to help the patient treat or prevent the opportunistic infections. The latest drugs available are very effective in reducing the rate of the common opportunistic infections
10172	AIDS Dementia Complex (ADC) is one of the most common complications of HIV-1 infection. It is severe and is greatly associated with high morbidity. Its pathogenesis is still a mystery although as compared with other opportunistic infections of HIV, it is believed to be caused directly by the HIV-1 virus. ADC was first seen alongside the AIDS epidemic. As with the term, there is the persistent cognitive deterioration which not only affects the intellect of the patient but including the motor complex and behavior. Also, myelopahty is an important aspect of the ADC. The moment the patient is diagnosed with the ADC, it is staged according to the ADC Staging System. The staging is composed of five steps which are based on the cognitive and motor incapacity of the patient. The earlier stage is when there are neurologic symptoms but without the functional impairment and the advanced stage is when there is severe dysfunction. Generally, ADC affects the patient's cognition, motor skills and behavior. Usually the cognitive and motor skills are the first ones affected and the diagnosis is usually made when the patient manifest impairment of these skills. In a study conducted on the ADC, it was found that ADC is commonly found for those with advanced HIV-1 infection although it is also commonly found in those with preserved helper lymphocyte. This means that immunosuppression has an effect on the development of the complex. According to the data by the Community Programs for Clinical Research on AIDS (CPCRA), ADC is strongly associated with the advanced stage of HIV. Moreover it also showed that there is strong relationship between survival rate and the development of stage 2 and over of ADC. Compared with the mortality rate of Pneumocystic carinii pneumonia, the 6-months cumulative mortality rate of ADC is three times greater. Compared with other neurologic diseases it is almost the same is the 85% rate if PML, 70% of CNS lymphoma and 51% of cerebral toxoplasmosis. The high rate may be attributed to ineffectiveness of antiviral treatment, the vulnerability of neurologic debility and the hopelessness attitude of the caregivers. According to the most recent studies the HIV-1 plays a significant role in the development of ADC particularly those with severe cognitive dysfunction. It was found that it is due to the production of the macrophages and microglia by the HIV-1, which affects the neuronal dysfunction. There is also the activation of the cytokine circuits and the neuropahtologic sequelae which causes neurotoxicity. By identifying these factors doctors may soon find effective treatment for ADC.
10173	Ainhum is a disease characterized by painful constriction of the fifth toe. This generally leads to amputation after a few years. Ainhum is more common among black African descents. It is commonly found among the blacks in West Africa, India and South America. The first recorded incidence of the disease is in 1867 by J.F. da Silva Lima. He described the disease suffered by one of the tribes in Brazil, the Nagos, who gave the disease its name. It is very rare in Europe and only a few incidences have been reported. It is also more common among those in between 20 and 50 years of age, with the average in 38 years of age. The youngest patient in record to have Ainhum is seven years old. The cause of the disease is still being studied. At present though, scientists have found that it is not caused by fungi, virus, parasite, bacteria and injury. Although it linked with walking barefoot during childhood, the disease is also found among those who have not gone barefoot. Among all the predisposing factors, race has been found to be on top of the list and thus scientists believe that it has some genetic component. Scientists believe that the disease is caused by the abnormal blood supply on the foot. Angiography of the peripheral limb has shown that the tibial artery may have become attenuated at the ankle and that there is noticeable absence of the plantar arch and branches. There are four stages of ainhum: the Grade I, wherein there is the presence of the groove; Grade II, wherein the floor of the groove is ulcerated; Grade III, wherein the bone is involved; and Grade IV wherein autoamputation occurs. In about 78% of the cases there is the presence of pain. For those in the early stage the pain may be slight and may have been caused by the pressure on the nerves. For those in the advanced stage, the pain is quite severe which is caused by chronic sepsis or fracture of the phalanx. Ainhum is commonly confused with diabetic gangrene, scleroderma, leprosy, Vohwinkle syndrome and leprosy. The pain is the symptom of the ainhum and it is a progressive condition. For the treatment of the ainhum, for the Grade I and II excision of the groove and z-plasty has been proven to relieve pain and prevent autoamputation. For the Grade III disarticulating the metatarsophanlangeal joint has been proven to be as effective.
10174	Airplane ear is the feeling of general discomfort usually experience by airplane passengers, mainly due to the rapid changes in the air pressure and altitude. People with cold, congested nose and some nasal allergy are more likely to experience airplane ears when traveling.
10175	Akathisia also spelled as acathisia from the greek word means without or not. Akathisia is characterized by restlessness. The patient is unable stay still or motionless.
10176	Akinetic mutism is the term used to describe persons who neither move nor speak.
10177	Alagille syndrome is a disease that affects the heart, liver and other major organs of the body.
10178	Alagille-Watson syndrome (AWS) is one of the genetic disorders which affect the different systems of the body including the heart and the liver. The symptoms of the AWS are usually manifested during early childhood or infancy. It is hereditary and its prevalence rate is 1 in every 70,000. The symptoms if AWS varies per family that in some cases it is so mild that the symptoms are unnoticeable while in some cases the symptoms may be as severe as to require transplantation of the heart. When the symptom is liver damage, the patient may have Alagille syndrome which includes yellowing of the skin and whites of the eyes, xanthomas, itching and bile duct paucity. The patient may also have congenital heart problem and kidney problems. In other less common cases, the central nervous system is affected. As for the physical manifestation, those with AWS have the same facial features which includes broad forehead, small and pointed chin and deep-set eyes. The Alagille-Watson Syndrome is caused by the mutation in the JAG1 gene. This gene plays an important role in the signaling of cells during the embryonic development. The mutation of the gene then disrupts the signaling and thus it causes developmental errors of the body's system, such as the heart, liver, spinal column and facial features. In those with liver problems caused by the AWS, the bile ducts are narrowed and malformed. This then results in bile build ups and scarring which prevents the proper elimination of wastes in the blood. Usually the child inherits the altered gene from one parent although there are cases wherein the patient develops mutations of the gene. At present, there is still no known cure for the AWS and the treatment given to patients are targeted to the improvement of the affected system of the body, such as improvement of heart or liver condition. At the same time, the treatments are aimed also at reducing the effects of the affected system. For those with liver problems caused by AWS, there are several medications which are effective in improving the bile flow and in reducing the itching and this include Actigall, Atarax, Rifampicin, Cholestyramine and Phenobarbitol. Of course the effectiveness of the medication varies per patient. Doctors also recommend the high dosage of multivitamins especially vitamins A, D, E and K, since with the damage to the bile ducts the body will have difficulty absorbing these important vitamins. For those with heart defects caused by AWC, corrective surgery is sometimes necessary.
10179	The Albers-Schonberg disease is one of the most common types of osteopetrosis. It has been found that it is caused by the mutation in the CICN7 chloride channel gene. Those who have Albers-Schonberg disease, have bone cells, osteoclats, not functioning normally. These osteoclats are responsible for the breaking down of old bone tissues so that new ones will grow. In case of the disease, the osteoclats do not break the old bone tissues which then results in overgrow of the bones in the body. These overgrown then become very brittle and break easily. In the United States, it is estimated that around 1,250 persons have osteopetrosis. There are different forms of osteopetrosis and the most severe type is very rare that in the United States, there are only about 8 to 40 cases reported each year. The malignant infantile osteopetrosis is a severe form of the disease. It affects the child even when she is still in the womb. When the baby is delivered, the bones of the shoulder usually break. The baby with malignant infantile osteopetrosis has low calcium, has pressure on the optic nerve in the brain and experiences frequent bone fractures. About 75% of those affected with this disease will develop anemia and thrombocytopenia. If not treated, the child is not expected to live beyond the age of 10. Children have the disease when the parents have the abnormal genes even though they may not have the symptoms. The transient infantile osteopetrosis is the same as the infantile osteopetrosis except that in this case the patient heals on her own without treatment. The adult benign osteopetrosis is what is originally called the Albers-Schonberg disease. The disease is named after the man who first recorded or described the disease. The disease is generally mild and is more common among those in between the age of 20 and 40. One of the most common manifestations of the disease is frequent bone fractures and difficulty healing them. In some cases bone infections, degenerative arthritis, headache and pain may also be experience by those with the disease. The disease may be inherited from the parent with the defective gene and children of parents with the Albers-Schonberg disease have about 50% chance of having the same defective gene. The intermediate osteopetrosis is more common among children below the age of 10. The symptoms is almost the same as the malignant infantile osteopetrosis although less severe. It is believed that it is inherited the same way as the malignant infantile osteopetrosis.
10180	Albinism is the term used to describe a heterogeneous group that display genetically determined disorders that are generally characterized by hypopigmentation that largely affects the eyes. This group of disorders will result to little or no melanin production; hence patients don't have melanin on their skin, eyes and hair. Albinos are quite sensitive to sun exposure and at significantly more at risk of developing skin cancer.
10181	Albinism immunodeficiency is an unusual persistent disorder that involves multiple systems of the body and occurs from an alteration in the lysosomal trafficking regulator gene, LYST. Because of the destruction of lysosome degranulation with phagosomes phagocytosed bacteria are not damaged by the lysosome's enzymes. Additionally, emission of lytic secretory granules in the cytotoxic T cells is also distressed. Not only doe sit happen to humans but also to cattle, blue Persian cats, white tigers and orcas.
10182	Albright hereditary osteodystrophy, otherwise known as Martin-Albright syndrome is generally a form of osteodystrophy. This is considered to be a very rare genetic disorder characterized as the body's failure t respond and recognize parathyroid hormone. This hormone is involved in taking control of phosphate and calcium in the blood vessel.
10183	In 1937, Donovan James McCune and Fuller Albright explained Albright's syndrome as an inherited condition distinguished by abnormalities in the skin pigmentation, bone ailments and endocrine complications. The diseases in the bone may result to the weakness of the bone and abnormalities in the legs, arms and skull. Diseases in the endocrine may the reason for early puberty and elevated growth rate. Patients are affected by several distinctiveness of the ailment to various degrees several individuals may have the condition and have no evident complications.
10184	Alcaptonuria is more commonly known as black urine disease, which is very rare genetic disease that can be passed on as an autosomal recessive trait. The particular gene that causes this disorder is unable to break down some proteins known as phenylalanine and tyrosine that may be toxic to the human body. This condition is harmful to the bones and body tissues.
10185	Alcohol fetopathy is characterized by a series of congenital defects that affect the facial, cranial, cardiac and nueral abnormalities. This medical condition also involves mental and physical retardation that occur on infants arising from excessive alcohol intake by the mother during pregnancy.
10186	Alcohol is commonly associated with a number of liver diseases including hepatitis. However, the relationship between alcohol hepatitis and drinking is quite complex. This is because only a small number of heavy drinkers are afflicted with alcohol hepatitis and there are some moderated drinkers who have contracted this disease. Alcohol can possibly progress to liver failure and cirrhosis if patient continues to drink and is often fatal.
10187	Alcohol-induced neurotoxicity syndrome is an acquired neurological damage caused by excessive alcohol abuse. This condition is associated with Wernicke-Korsakoff syndrome, and is characterized by dementia.
10188	Alcohol Poisoning is a serious - sometimes deadly - result of consuming dangerous amounts of alcohol. Excessive alcohol intake can create a direct and devastating impact on the central nervous system. Alcohol can lead to serious conditions including slowing your breathing, heart rate and gag reflex. These occurences can result to severe implications like choking, coma and even death. Alcohol poisoning is life-threatening condition that is usually brought about as a result of drinking excessive amounts of alcoholic beverages within a short period of time.
10189	Alcoholism is drinking alcoholic beverages at a level that obstruct with physical health, mental health, and social, family, or job responsibilities. It is a progressive medical condition that encourages alcohol dependency. You may be fascinated with alcohol and unable to control how much you drink.
10190	Primary aldosteronism is a medical condition, where the adrenal glands of the body produce too much of the aldosterone hormone, which causes the body lose potassium and retain sodium. In general, sodium and potassium work together to aid in maintaining the right balance of fluids in the human body, help in transmitting nerve impulses, as well as contract and relax the muscles. However, the excess in aldosterone results to sodium retention, retaining excess water and the increase of blood pressure and blood volume.
10191	Alexander disease is considered as a very rare type of neurological conditions that is known as leukodystrophies, which is a disorder results from abnormalities in myelin, the "white substance" that protects the nerve fibers in the brain. Alexander disease is progressive in nature and is usually fatal.
10192	Alien hand syndrome , also identified as Dr. Strangelove syndrome and anarchic hand is an very unusual neurological disorder, characterized by the apparent loss of control of one's hand, and the sufferer's hand appears to have a mind of its own.
10193	Alkalosis is a condition when there is a fleuid and electrolytes imbalance. In this case the base or also called alkali is in higher level. Its opposite is acidosis, which is the acid level of our body, is abnormally high.
10194	Alkaptonuria is a very rare disease that is genetically transmitted. The disease is characterized by a deficiency of the enzyme called homogentisic acid oxidase. This type of deficiency often leads to the buildup of the homogentisic acide on the tissues of the body. This medical condition has been reported to be more prevalent in Dominican Republic and Slovakia.
10195	Allan-Herndon syndrome is categorized as an extremely rare hereditary disorder that causes severe mental retardation along with impaired speech ability, diminished muscle tone, as well as possible movement abnormalities. For most infants afflicted with this medical condition tend to develop normally during the first few months. However, when the child reaches more or less six months, the baby will appear weak and unable to hold up its head and may never learn to walk on their own.
10196	Allergic angiitis is also known by another medical term called Churg-Strauss syndrome, which is characterized by a restricted blood flow to the various organs. While this disease normally involves any major body organ, it usually affects the skin and the lungs. The restricted flow of blood can cause serious damage of the affected areas. The restricted flow of blood to the body organs can cause temporary or permanent damage.
10197	Allergic Asthma is a medical condition that is characterized by the episodic obstruction of bronchial reactivity and airway inflammation caused by allergies.
10198	Allergic bronchopulmonary aspergillus is a serious respiratory disorder that is characterized by the allergic reaction of the lungs to a certain type of fungus. This disease occurs mostly in individuals that has cystic fibrosis and asthma, triggering cough, wheezing and in some cases accompanies by fever. If left untreated, this disorder may cause serious lung damage.
10199	Allergic cascade is the medical term used to describe a sequence of chemical release that takes place in response to allergens.
10200	Allergic Rhinitis Also called Hay Fever. Defined as an inflammation of the nasal passages, usually presents with watery nasal discharge and itching of the nose and eyes.
10201	Alopecia is the medical description for loss of hair from the body or head that sometimes lead to baldness, often unwelcome and unwanted. However, there are some individuals who display some psychological compulsion to forcibly pull out own hair. In some cases, hair loss can also present an underlying case for other medical concern such as iron deficiency.
10202	Alopecia areata is a medical condition that affects humans, characterized by excessive loss of hair in certain areas of the body, typically the scalp. This disease is often referred to as spot baldness since the initial stage causes the formation of bald spots that gradually spread through all areas of the scalp.
10203	Alopecia totalis means "loss of all hair in the head" that affects men, women and children. While the causes of alopecia totalis is still unclear, research has confirmed that this condition is an autoimmune disorder, wherein an organism fails to recognize its own parts as "self" and results in a negative response against its own tissues and cells.
10204	Alopecia Universalis, also known as "Alopecia areata universalis" is a condition that involves rapid loss of all hair, including eyelashes and eyebrows. Alopecia universalis is the most serious type of alopecia areata, affecting only 1 person in 100,000.
10205	The medical term for hair loss is called alopecia. Female alopecia is often characterized as being distressing and common. Caused by hormones, genes and aging, female pattern baldness involves a typical patter of loss of hair in women.
10206	Androgenetic alopecia or the male pattern baldness is the patterned balding of a man. One should note that the condition is not a medical disorder although it may affect both the appearance and self-esteem of some men.
10207	Named after Bernard Jacob Alpers, Alper's disease is a progressive degenerative disease that affects the central nervous system. Also called progressive sclerosing polidystrophy, progressive infantile poliodystrophy, progressive neuronal degeneration of childhood and Alpers' syndrome, this autosomal recessive disorder only occurs in infants and children, sometimes in siblings.
10208	Alpha 1-antitrypsin deficiency, also known simply as Alpha-1 or A1AD, is a genetic disorder caused by the defective production of "alpha 1-antitrypsin". When this happens, the blood and lungs receives insufficient amounts of A1AT while the liver cells receive excess amounts of A1AT proteins. Serious cases of Alpha-1 cause emphysema in most patients with this condition. Children and adults may experience liver diseases. Treatments of this disease include intravenous A1AT protein infusions, liver or lung transplants and avoidance of dangerous inhalants. People of Iberian, Saudi Arabian and northern European ancestry are more at risk of having A1AD.
10209	Alpha-mannosidosis is an "autosomal recessive metabolic disorder" that leads to physical and mental deterioration. When the a-mannosidase enzyme becomes defective, it causes impaired cell function and sugar buildup. Since this enzyme normally helps in breaking down complex sugars, absence of this functional enzyme may lead to death on children caused by deterioration of the central nervous system.
10210	In this condition, "a thalassemias" involve genes HBA1 and HBA2, which occurs due to Mendelian inheritance in a recessive fashion. Alpha-thalassemia is also connected to the deletion of 16p chromosome. Alpha-thalassemia results in a decrease in alpha-globin production that causes a decrease in the production of alpha-globin chains. As a result, an excess of beta chains occur in adults, while an excess of gamma chains occur in newborns.
10211	Alport syndrome, which first occurred in a British family and identified by Dr. Cecil Alport in 1927, is a genetic disorder characterized by end-stage kidney disease, hearing loss and glomerulonephritis. Hematuria or the presence of blood in urine always occurs in patients with this condition. Some also develop eye problems.
10212	Alstrom syndrome is a very rare genetic disorder - one of the rarest in the world, existing in only 266 reported cases in medical books and only 411 patients in 42 countries. First described by Carl Henry Alstrom in 1959, this condition is usually mistaken with Bardet-Biedl syndrome, which has resembling symptoms. However, the Bardet-Biedl syndrome usually have later onset with its symptoms.
10213	Alternating hemiplegia of childhoon or "AHC" is a rare genetic disease that causes progressive mental retardation and intermittent paralysis, which starts during childhood.
10214	Alternative names for Altitude Illness are the ff: High altitude cerebral edema; High altitude pulmonary edema; Mountain sickness; acute mountain sickness. Altitude Illness is a sickness that can influence mountain climbers, hikers, skiers, or travelers who climb very fast; usually encountered when reaching high elevation in a very rapid manner.
10215	Altophobia, or acrophobia, is a person's fear of heights. This fear can be very dangerous especially to those who are exploring high elevations; they may suddenly experience panic attack while going higher above the ground causing their heart to palpitate and lead to serious complications.
10216	(ACD) is defined as a lethal evolving anomaly of the pulmonary vasculature. It is normally illustrated as the miscarriage of the normal air-blood diffusion barrier in the newborn lung. It is usually supplementary with the misalignment of the pulmonary veins.
10217	Alveolar Hydatid Disease is a rare medical condition where there is a multi-organ infection caused by the larval stage of a Echinococcus multilocularis, tapeworm that is usually microscopic and is usually found in foxes, coyote, dogs and cats. When affecting human, the tapeworm thrive on the lungs, brain and organs of the body.
10218	Alveolar osteitis or dry socket is a type of dental condition that typically occurs when the blood clots at the area where an extracted tooth is dislodged, and exposes the underlying nerves and bones. This causes increasing pain.
10219	Alveolar soft part sarcoma or "ASPS", which was first identified in 1952, is an extremely rare type of soft tissue sarcoma, a slow-growing tumor that occurs mainly in children and young adults. ASPS is a highly angiogenic disease, which involves an intensive production of new blood vessels connecting the tumor to the blood and enabling dissemination of tumor cells into the bloodstream. Because of this, tumor cells can easily transfer into various parts of the body, usually affecting the brain and lungs. ASPS is a sarcoma that affects soft tissues that connects and supports organs and structures of the body. It usually develops in the deep soft tissues and muscles of the leg or thighs, but could also appear in hands, head and neck. However, it could also spread and develop inside bones.
10220	Extrinsic allergic alveolitis (EAA), also known as hypersensitivity pneumonitis, is an inflammation of the alveoli found in the lung. This condition is caused by hypersensitivity to various types of inhaled organic dusts. People with this disease are usually exposed to dust from their hobbies or occupations. Several types of extrinsic allergic alveolitis exist based on the provoking antigen. These include Bird-Breeder's Lung (avian proteins), Farmer's Lung (molds), Bagassosis (moldy bagasse or sugarcane), Malt Worker's Lung (moldy barley), Humidifier Lung (by mist of standing water). Mushroom Worker's Lung (mushroom compost), Compost Lung (compost), Peat Moss Worker's Lung (peat moss), Suberosis (moldy cork dust), Japanese Summer-Type HP (damp wood and mats) and Cheese-Washer's Lung (cheese casings). Other types of EAA include Hot Tub Lung, Mollusc Shell HP, Metalworking Fluids HP, Isocyanate HP, TMA HP, Beryllium and Wine-grower's Lung. The most common of all EAA are Bird-Breeder's Lung and Farmer's Lung, affecting 8 to 850 people in 100,000 persons each year for farmers alone and 6,000 to 21,000 people in 100,000 persons for pigeon breeders yearly.
10221	Alveolus Cancer is the cancer of the tiny air sacs at the end of the bronchial tubes located in the lungs.
10222	Familial Alzheimer's disease (FAD) is a very rare form of Alzheimer's disease that affects people aged 20 to 65. This condition is inherited in an "autosomal dominant fashion". As its name suggest, Familial AD occurs in patients with 2 or more first-degree relatives with AD history. However, only 5% of the total Alzheimer's disease account to familial AD. Emil Kraepelin first identified the symptoms of FAD, while Alois Alzheimer observed the characteristic neuropathology of FAD in 1906.
10223	Alzheimer's disease, which is named after Alois Alzheimer, is a neurodegenerative disease that occurs in people aged 65 and over. This disease is the most common cause of dementia, affecting over 20 million people worldwide. Once Alzheimer's has been diagnosed, the life expectancy of patients is around 7 years. Only 3% of patients live for more than 10 years.
10224	"Amaurosis" is a Greek word that means obscure, dark or darkening. As its name suggest, Amaurosis is vision loss or a weakness that develops without any apparent lesion, affecting the eyes. Amaurosis can be a result from a medical condition, while some are acquired from excess acceleration, such as in flights.
10225	Ambiguous genitalia is a very rare medical condition in which the external genitals of the newborn do not clearly appear if it's a male or female usually because it is not properly formed. This may cause serious social stigma and question to the baby's gender. In most cases, it is important to wait to determine to true gender of the child.
10226	Amblyopia, commonly known as "lazy eye", is a visual system disorder characterized by poor vision in one of the eyes. However, the affected eye remains physically normal or out of proportion. This condition affects 1% to 5% of the global population. Poor or no transmission of the visual images to the brain causes lazy eye. This condition usually affects only one eye, but it could occur in both eyes if both are similarly deprived of clear visual images. However, if detected early in life, the chance of successful treatment increases.
10227	Ambras syndrome is a genetic condition characterized by excessive hair throughout the body. It is also known as "hypertrichosis lanuginosa", congenital hypertrichosis universalis and congenital hypertrichosis lanuginose. Ambras syndrome affects only one person in 1 billion people. Less than 40 cases of Ambras syndrome have been documented worldwide. This condition is said to have genetic component with family histories of Ambras syndrome being reported in relation to affected patients. In the 19th century, people suffering from Ambras syndrome perform in sideshow acts or circuses. People described as "wolfmen" or "werewolves" due to their excessive hair growth are most likely sufferers of Ambras syndrome.
10228	Amelogenesis is a disease that forms enamel on teeth. It occurs during the crown stage of a person's tooth development or during the formation of dentine.
10229	Amelogenesis imperfecta is a disorder of a person's tooth development, which causes teeth to become discolored, grooved, pitted, prone to breakage, become unusually small and develop other dental abnormalities. This condition produces varying effects and can affect both baby teeth and permanent teeth. Fourteen types of amelogenesis imperfecta exist. Each type is distinguished by specific dental abnormalities present. All types of amelogenesis imperfecta can affect any number of teeth. People with amelogenesis imperfecta develop teeth with abnormal color, such as grey, brown or yellow. Their teeth have greater risk of developing cavities and become hypersensitive to changes in the temperature. It is estimated that 1 in 14,000 people in the U.S. and 1 in 700 people in Sweden suffer from amelogenesis imperfecta. However, the exact incidence of this condition remains uncertain.
10230	Amenorrhoea, a term derived from the Greek "a"=negative, "men"=month, "rhoea"=flow, is a condition wherein a female does not experience a menstrual period. Amenorrhoea is also a symptom of various causes. For women where menstrual cycles never start, a condition called primary amenorrhoea, the condition may be caused by several developmental problems such as failure of ovaries to maintain or receive eggs cells as well as congenital absence of one's uterus. Delay in a female's pubertal development may also cause primary amenorrhea. Secondary amenorrhoea, wherein menstruation cycles cease, is usually caused by hormonal problems from the pituitary gland and hypothalamus. This can also occur when a female experiences premature menopause and intrauterine scar formation.
10231	American trypanosomiasis, also known as Chagas' disease, is a human parasitic disease, which occurs in tropical areas in South America. The pathogenic agent of this disease is a "flagellate protozoan" called "Trypanosoma cruzi", which is transmitted to mammals by blood-sucking assassin bugs of the Reduviidae Family. These insects are also called barbeiro, chupanca, chipo, vinchuca, benchuca and kissing bug. However, other forms of transmission are possible; some affected patients acquire the disease through fetal or blood transmission as well as ingestion of food contaminated with various parasites.
10232	Amnesia is a condition in which memory is disturbed. The generators of amnesia are organic or functional. It is the loss of recall; usually natural causes include damage to the brain, within trauma or disease, or use of specific drugs
10233	Amnesic Shellfish Poisoning is an unusual and rare disease which occurs as a result of a toxin made by a microscopic, salt-water plant that is usually red-brown or a diatom specie called Nitzchia Pungens.
10234	Amnestic Disorder, otherwise known as the Retrogade Amnesia, is a disorder where there unusually decline in memory function such as difficulty in recalling events that happened or facts that they know before the Amnestic Disorder.
10235	Amoebic dysenery is an intestinal illness due to a microscopic parasite called Entamoeba histolytica. Anyone can be infected with Entamoeba histolytica. It is common to people living in tropical or subtropical areas and men fun of having sex with men.
10236	Amputation is the removal of a body extremity by trauma or surgery. It is implemented to control pain or a disease, such as malignancy or gangrene. A special case is the congenital amputation, where foetal limbs have been taken off by constrictive bands. Amputation of the hands or feet is implemented as a form of punishment for people who committed crimes in some countries.
10237	Amyloidosis is a unique and potentially deadly disease that takes place when substances called amyloid proteins build up in your organs; which areabnormal proteins commonly formed by cells in your bone marrow that can be deposited in any tissue or organ.
10238	Amylotrophic lateral sclerosis is a progressive neurodegenerative disease that destroys the motor neurons causing paralysis and eventual death. In this condition the nerves associated with voluntary muscle control degenerate and results to atrophy of the muscles. Most patients become bound to a wheelchair and soon die due to other complications.
10239	Amyoplasia congenita is a birth disorder characterized by stiffness of the joints and muscle and nerve wastage that causes severe impairment and eventual immobility of the arms and legs.
10240	abbreviated ALS; is a disorder of the nerve cells in the brain and spinal cord that are in charge for voluntary muscle movement. It is a crucial neurological disease that harms the nerve cells that control voluntary muscles.
10241	Anal cancer is a type of cancer which arises from the anus, the distal orifice of the gastrointestinal tract.
10242	Anal exudates are wastes, either in fluid or semi-solid form, which are released by the anus. They also referred to as feces.
10243	An anal fissure is a small tear in the lining of the anal canal. Frequently in infants' ages 6 to 24 months, anal fissures are less likely to develop in older children. Adults may generate anal fissures as a result of passing hard or large stools during bowel movements.
10244	Anal itching is characterized by an intense itching felt around the anus causing extreme discomfort. This medical condition is also called pruritus ani and can be caused by a number of irritants such as abrasion of the clothing, moisture or even pressure in sitting.
10245	Anaphylactic Shock is also called Anaphylaxis. It is a life-threatening type of allergic reaction in humans and other mammals. It occurs when an allergic response triggers a rapid release from mast cells of huge quantities of immunological mediators leading to systemic vasodilation and edema of bronchial mucosa. Anaphylactic shock can advance to death in a count of minutes if left untreated. Anaphylactic Shock may occur after ingestion, injection of an allergen, skin contact or, in rare cases, inhalation.
10246	Anaphylactoid Purpura otherswise known as the Henoch-Schonlein purpura or HSP is a medical condition that refers to the inflammation of the blood vessels or the vasculitis.
10247	Anaphylaxis, from the Greek words "ava ana" (against) and "phylaxis" (protection), is a severe type I hypersensitivity and acute systemic allergic reaction in mammals, including humans. This condition occurs when an animal or person is exposed to an allergen that has already become sensitized. Large amounts of this allergen may cause a life-threatening reaction. Anaphylaxis occurs after injection, ingestion and inhalation of an allergen. In the United States, 1% to 17% of the population is estimated at risk for experiencing an anaphylactic reaction if exposed in various allergens, especially insect stings and penicillin. Of those who suffer from Anaphylaxis, 1% die as a result, accounting to 1,000 deaths per year in the United States.
10248	Anaplastic thyroid cancer is a type of thyroid cancer that has an extremely poor prognosis with only 14% survival rate. This disease is known for its aggressive behavior and fatal resistance to available cancer treatments. Anaplastic thyroid cancer quickly invades surrounding tissues.
10249	Anasarca, also called Swelling is the enlargement of skin, organs or other body parts. It is caused by build up of liquid in the tissues. The extra fluid can advance to a quick upsurge in weight over a short period of time. Anasarca can occur throughout the body or only in a definite part of the body.
10250	Androgen insensitivity syndrome (AIS) is also called Androgen resistance syndrome. Androgen insensitivity syndrome is a condition wherein patients suffer from a set of disorders related to sexual differentiation, which results in mutation of the genes encoding the androgen receptor. The nature of problems caused by Androgen insensitivity syndrome varies largely according to the sensitivity and structure of abnormal receptor. Almost all types of Androgen insensitivity syndrome involve infertility and undervirilization in persons of both genders. Women with complete Androgen insensitivity syndrome have female appearance even if they have an undescended testes and 46XY karyotype.
10251	Anemia comes from the Greek words "an-hama", which means "without blood". Anemia is the most widespread blood disorder. This condition is a deficiency of RBCs (red blood cells) or hemoglobin, the molecules inside RBCs. When hemoglobin carries oxygen from the lungs into tissues, anemia causes lack of oxygen in organs. When this happens, different clinical consequences may occur due to oxygen deficiency. There are three classes of anemia - excessive blood loss, excessive blood cell destruction and deficient production of red blood cells. Anemia has several types, which are produced by various underlying causes. This disease can be classified using different ways, normally based on discernible clinical spectra, the morphology of red blood cells and etiologic mechanisms.
10252	Diamond-Blackfan anemia is a congenital erythroid aplasia, which is commonly present in infants. Patients with Diamond-Blackfan anemia have anemia (or low red blood cell counts). However, the remaining blood cells, such as white blood cells and platelets, have normal counts. Various congenital abnormalities may also occur with Diamond-Blackfan anemia patients.
10253	Pernicious anemia, also called "Addisson's anemia" or "Biermer's anaemia", is a type of megalobastic anemia caused by vitamin B12 deficiency. This condition is the most common cause of vitamin B12 deficiency in adults.
10254	Sideroblastic anemia is a condition caused by the abnormal production of red blood cells, normally as a part of myelodysplastic syndrome that can evolve into hematological malignancies, such as acute myelogenous leukemia. When this happens, the patient's body will have iron, but it cannot incorporate this into the hemoglobin.
10255	Anencephaly is a cephalic disorder resulting from a neural tube defect, which occurs when the head of the neural tube does not close. It usually occurs around the 23rd to 26th day of pregnancy. This condition results in the absence of a large portion of the scalp, skull and brain. Infants with Anencephaly are born with no forebrain, the part of the brain where the cerebral hemispheres should be present. The brain tissues that exist are often uncovered by skin or bone. Infants born with Anencephaly are usually deaf, blind, unconscious and inability to feel pain. This is because the cerebral hemispheres affected by this condition are responsible for higher level of cognition, such as thinking. In the United States, 1,000 to 2,000 babies are born with Anencephaly every year. Female babies are more likely to be affected by Anencephaly. Unfortunately, the cause of Anencephaly is unknown.
10256	An aneurysm is a localized, balloon-like, blood-filled dilation of any blood vessel, which is caused by a disease or weakening of the vessel wall. An aneurysm usually occurs in arteries located in the brain and in the aorta (heart). The bulge in blood vessels could burst, which could lead to death any time. However, the larger aneurysm becomes, the larger chances it is to burst.
10257	Aneurysm of sinus Valsalva, also known as "aneurysm of the aortic sinus" is a rare disorder, affecting only one person in 1,000 people. For people with Aneurysm of sinus Valsalva, it usually occurs in the right sinus, rarely in the left. Aneurysm of sinus Valsalva is a congenital disease and may possibly be associated with heart defects. This condition is sometimes associated with Loeys-Dietz syndrome and Marfan Syndrome. It could also result from syphilis, chest injuries, atherosclerosis, Ehlers-Danlos syndrome, infective endocarditis and cystic medial necrosis. When Aneurysm of sinus Valsalva is unruptured, it can be asymptomatic. As such, the condition may go undetected until symptoms become apparent or medical imaging is performed.
10258	Angelman syndrome is a hereditary disorder that causes developmental disabilities and neurological problems, such as balancing and walking, and difficulty speaking. Regular smiles and outbursts of laughter are common for people with Angelman syndrome, and many have happy, excitable personalities.
10259	Angina pectoris is a type of chest pain or discomfort that is primarily caused by reduction of the blood flow to the heart muscle. This medical condition is categorized as a coronary artery disease.
10259	Angina Pectoris is a term that illustrates chest pain due to myocardial ischemia. It normally happens on exertion and is comforted by resting. Alternative names for Angina Pectoris are stable angina and chronic angina.
10260	Unstable angina, or angina pectoris, is a medical condition where the obstruction of the coronary artery causes reduced supply of oxygen to the heart.
10261	Angiofollicular lymph node hyperplasia is more commonly known as the Castleman's disease, which is categorized as a very rare form of illness that primarily affects the lymph nodes as well as other immune-cell structures of the body.
10262	It is important to discuss lipoma to understand the nature of angiolipoma. Lipoma is a benign tumor composed of fatty tissues. These tumors are usually movable, soft to touch and painless. They could grow extremely slow and can sometimes be cancerous. Most types of lipomas are small, but can increase its size up to six centimeters. Lipoma usually occurs in adults aged 40 to 60, but could also appear in children. An estimated 1% of the global population suffers from lipoma. Lipomas are also seen in animals. They are found usually on older dogs, but lipomas can also occur in puppies. They appear in single or multiple. While these lipomas grow, they are usually benign. Malignant forms of lipoma in animals are extremely rare.
10263	Angioma is a benign tumor, which is made up of small blood vessels. Angioma normally appears near or at the surface of the skin in any part of the body. However, Angiomas are usually not considered dangerous (depending on location). Some Angiomas are present as symptoms for other serious diseases, such as cirrhosis. When an angioma is removed, it is usually for cosmetic reasons.
10264	Angiomatosis is a condition that refers to "little knots" of capillaries in different organs. Angiomatosis tend to be defined, sponge-like, sharp tumors that are composed of dilated and large cavernous vascular spaces. Angiomatosis often appears in people with Sturge-Weber syndrome, Bacillary angiomatosis, Von-Hippel-Lindau disease and Klippel-Trenaunay-Weber syndrome.
10265	Angiopathy refers to any disease associated with the blood vessels or the lymph vessels. When angiopathy is caused by diabetes, it is called diabetic angiopathy. Similar to most complications brought about by diabetes, diabetic angiopathy is primarily due to hyperglycemia or the high levels of blood sugar known to us as glucose. This disease can occur in any part of the body where the effect of high glucose level resulted to clogged up due to build up of plaque in the inner walls of the vessels. There are two types of this disease, macroangiopathy or microangiopathy.
10266	Angiosarcoma is a cancerous tumor that develops from the blood vessels or lymphatic vessels. Such tumors could occur in any part of the body, but they mostly appear in the neck, head, legs and arms.
10267	Anguillulosis is a parasitosis caused by roundworm. It affects over 50 million people worldwide, occurring mainly in sub-tropical and tropical zones, such as South East Asia, West Indies, Indian Ocean region, Southern Africa and Central & South America. The female roundworm, measuring only 2.55 long, lives in the small intestines of humans. When they lay eggs in the small intestines, they release larvae in their feces. These roundworms reach infectious stage directly after sexual reproduction. When they become infectious, roundworms penetrate skin directly. They could also affect the digestive system and may produce symptoms 30 years after roundworms are reproduced.
10268	A chronic inflammatory condition of the corners of the mouth is called angular cheilitis or perleche. It is usually associated with a bacterial (Staphylococcal) or fungal (Candidal) infection, and those infected may also have thrush (an oral candidiasis). Depending upon whether or not the affected person seeks treatment, the condition can last from days to months.
10269	Anhidrosis is the inability to sweat normally that can eventually lead to overheating of the body which can be very fatal. Anhidrosis can be quite difficult to diagnose and often goes unrecognized. There are a number of factors that can cause this medical condition and treatment would usually depend on the underlying cause.
10270	Aniridia is an extremely rare congenital disease characterized by an underdevelopment of the patient's iris, which usually occur in both eyes. This condition is associated with very poor development of the retina at the back of the eye, which in turn, prevents normal vision development..
10271	Anisakiasis is a condition caused by an infection from Anisakis worms of the genus parasitic nematodes. These nematodes have a life cycle that involves marine mammals and various fishes. When fishes are infected with Anisakis, it could produce an "Anaphylactic reaction" in people sensitized to IgE (immunoglobulin) Anisakiasis usually occurs in areas where fish is consumed raw, salted or lightly pickled. The highest number of people with Anisakiasis is Japan (consuming sushi), Scandinavia (due to cod liver), South America (after eating ceviche) and Netherlands (from infected fermented herrings).
10272	Anisometropia is a medical condition where it affects the binocular vision of a person especially that of infants and children. It is characterized by having Non-symmetric vision or eyes that have unequal and different refractive power which causes varying or unequal rotations leading to diplopia and asthenopia.
10273	An ankle fracture is a quite common injury, especially among athletes. There are three bones on each ankle joint, each one is susceptible to stubbing, twisting, stress and trauma. The degree of the severity of an ankle fracture varies from one case to another, ranging from mild to severe such as shattering the bones into tiny pieces.
10274	An ankle sprain may be due to a sudden twist or roll of the ankle or any unnatural movement that stretched the ligaments of the ankle. The ligaments are tough elastic bands that connects a bone to another as well ass help stabilize the joints to prevent any excessive movements.
10275	Ankylosing spondylitis is a chronic degenerative inflammatory arthritis that affects the spine and sacroiliac joints, causing a painful and eventual fusion of the spine. When complete fusion occurs and results in complete spine rigidity, it becomes a condition known as "bamboo spine".
10276	Ankylosis is a condition characterized by joint stiffness caused by an injury or a disease. The rigidity of joints may be partial or complete. Some cases of Ankylosis may be due to the inflammation of the muscular (tendinous) structures in the outer part of the joints or of the joint's tissues itself.
10277	Ankylostomiasis, derived from the Greek words "anclo" (crooked or bent) and "stoma" (mouth), is the disease caused by hookworms. It is also known as tunnel disease, Egyptian chlorosis, Miner's anemia, helminthiasis and Brickmaker's anaemia. Ankylostomiasis is a condition caused by large numbers of hookworms present that produce iron deficiency anemia by aggressively sucking blood from its host's intestinal walls. Hookworm is the leasing cause of child and maternal morbidity in areas of the tropics and subtropics. In children, Ankylostomiasis could cause growth retardation, prematurity, intellection and cognitive retardation, intrauterine growth retardation and low birth weight for newborns with infected mothers. Ankylostomiasis is rarely fatal, but severe anemia could be present with patients heavily infected with the disease.
10278	Annular pancreas is an extremely rare condition that occurs in 1 out of 15,000 newborns. Annular pancreas is a condition wherein the second part of the "duodenum" is surrounded by pancreatic tissues that continue up to the head of the pancreas. This part of the pancreas constricts the duodenum and impairs or blocks the flow of food to the intestines.
10279	Ano-rectal atresia is a birth defect characterized by a malformed rectum due to an unknown cause. This condition is commonly present along with other types of birth defects such as heart and spinal problems, renal and limb anomalies, tracheoesophageal fistula and esophageal atresia. Ano-rectal atresia is sometimes a complication of sacrococcygeal teratoma. There are several forms of Ano-rectal atresia. Sometimes the colon remains close to the skin (low lesion), which can be caused by narrowing of the anus or missing anus with the rectum ending in a pouch. Other types are characterized with a high lesion, wherein the colon is located high in the pelvis, while the fistula connects the rectum with the vagina, urethra or bladder. Some patients suffer from a joined vagina and colon into a single channel, a disorder called persistent cloaca. To confirm the type of Ano-rectal atresia, sonography is recommended. Ano-rectal atresia occurs in 1 in 5,000 newborns. It affects both boys and girls. However, Ano-rectal atresia will be present as the low version 90% in females and 50% in males.
10280	Anodontia, also known as anodontia vera in dentistry, is a very rare genetic disorder. This disease is characterized by congenital absence of all permanent and primary teeth. Anodontia is associated with a group of nerve and skin syndromes known as "ectodermal dysplasias". Anodontia is commonly part of different syndromes, which rarely occur as an isolated disorder. Partial anodontia, wherein the patient suffers from congenital absence of two or more teeth, could also occur. This is also known as "oligodontia" and "hypodontia". Some patients may also suffer from congenital absence of all third molars and all wisdrom teeth.
10281	Anonychia Microcephaly is a neurological disorder characterized by a small head circumference, widely spaced teeth, clinodactyly of 5th finger and the absence of nails. This condition may be congenital. However, some cases develop during the first years of life. Anonychia Microcephaly may be caused by various conditions that result in chromosomal abnormalities or an abnormal growth of the brain. Infants with Anonychia Microcephaly are born with a reduced head size. As the child grows, his or her head size fails to grow while their faces continue to develop normally, resulting in a small head with receding forehead and loose scalp. When the child grows older, the size of the skull becomes more obvious even if the entire body became dwarfed or underweight.
10282	Anophthalmia is the congenital absence of one or both eyes. Its name is derived from the Greek word "anophthalmos", meaning "without eye". Primary or True Anophthalmia is extremely rare. True Anophthalmia occurs when complete absence of the ocular tissue inside the orbit is diagnosed. When this condition occurs, a small globe becomes present inside the orbital soft tissue, which is usually not visibly in the initial examination. Extreme microphtalmos is more commonly seen.
10283	Anopthalmia is a congenital disorder in which a child is born with only one or totally no eyes. The occurrence of this defect is very rare. In this condition, there only is a small white mass present in the ocular cavity; but the mass contains no vision abilities. Treatment for this disease requires surgery.
10284	Anorchia is a medical condition wherein both testes are not present at birth. Anorchia is also known as congenital anorchia, vanishing testes syndrome, vanishing testes, empty scrotum and testicular regression syndrome (TRS). During the first few weeks of fertilization, the embryo needs to develop rudimentary sex organs that are very important to the development of the reproductive system. In human males, if their sex organs do not develop within the first 8 weeks, they will develop female genitalia. When the testes are lost between 8 to 10 weeks, they will develop "ambiguous genitalia" at birth. However, when the testes are lost after fourteen weeks, the baby can develop a normal, male reproductive system, but without testes. People with Anorchia have a 46-XY chromosome constellation. Signs of Anorchia include lack of secondary sex characteristics and an empty scrotum.
10285	Anorexia nervosa is a psychiatric disorder that describes an eating disorder, which is characterized by body image distortion and low body weight due to an obsessive fear of becoming fat or gaining weight. People with anorexia nervosa usually control their body weight by voluntary vomiting, purging, starving, extreme exercise and other weight control measures, such as taking diuretic drugs and diet pills. It usually affects adolescent females and only 10% of anorexia nervosa patients are male. Anorexia nervosa is an extremely complex disorder, involving neurobiological, sociological and psychological components.
10286	Anorgasmia is a medical term to refer to the regular difficulty of reaching reaching orgasm especially even after ample sexual stimulation and causing personal distress. Anorgasmia is actually a very common occurrence with about 15 percent of women report such cases of experiencing difficulty in reaching orgasm.
10287	Anosmia is a condition wherein patients experience the loss of temporary or permanent ability to smell. Hyposmia is a related condition wherein patients experience a decrease in their ability to smell, while "hyperosmia" is a condition that causes an increase in the patient's ability to smell. However, when a person loses his sense of smell for a particular odor, he is suffering from a genetically based disorder called "specific anosmia". "Congenital Anosmia" refers to the condition wherein a person is born without the sense of smell. Anosmia can be associated with other conditions, such as cystic fibrosis, zinc deficiency, cadmium poisoning, allergies, Refsum disease, holoprosencephaly, Alzheimer's disease, Kallman syndrome and Parkinson's disease.
10288	Anovolution is a medical condition where by there is difficulty in ovulating thereby causing infertility. The ovary in this kind of medical condition fails to release egg which make her unable to conceive.
10289	Anoxia is a medical condition where there is lack of oxygen in the body to supply it to the person's organ tissues. It is also known as hypoxia inasmuch as they refer to same condition where there is not enough oxygen needed to supply the organ tissues of the body.
10290	Anterior Cruciate Ligament Injuries are extreme stretching and tearing of the anterior cruciate ligament of the knee, which can either be complete or partial.
10291	Anterior horn disease is a condition that affects the anterior horn cells, which are responsible for voluntary muscle activities, such as breathing, walking, swallowing and speaking. Anterior horn disease is characterized by the death of more neurons, which result in a prolonged and progressive motor weakness. Some patients with anterior horn disease are affected permanently.
10292	Anterior knee pain syndrome is a degeneration of the tissue that protects the knee cap. This disease features extreme pain on the knees and is usually felt by people who are into athletic sports.
10293	Anthrax is an acute disease in animals and humans, which is caused by the bacterium "bacillus anthracis". Some types of anthrax are highly lethal. There are 89 types of anthrax recorded. Unlike other types of bacteria, anthrax can form long-lived spores. As soon as the life cycle of the bacteria is threatened by various factors, such as temperature change of dying host, the bacteria can transform into dormant spores, wait for another host and transfer to continue their life cycle. Anthrax usually occurs in wild and grass-eating mammals that breathe or ingest in the spores while eating grass. This disease can also be caught by humans exposed to dead infected pigs, high amounts of anthrax spores in animal wool, fur or hide and tissues from infected animals. While anthrax cannot be spread directly from one person to the next, human clothing can transfer the spores and when an infected person dies and the body is buried.
10294	Antibiotic resistance is the capability of a microorganism to resist the effects of antibiotics. It is a particular type of drug resistance. It develops naturally via natural selection that acts upon arbitrary mutation but it can also be developed by applying an evolutionary stress on a population.
10295	Antibiotic-resistant tuberculosis, also known as multidrug-resistant tuberculosis, is a kind of TB that doesn't respond effectively to anti-TB drugs such as rifampicin and isoniazid. This type of the disease is one of the deadliest forms of tuberculosis. It is less transmissible however, but it also needs special kinds of drugs that can eliminate antibiotic-resistant agents that thrive in the body. Most of the time treatment takes years to complete; some patients meanwhile die due to failure of completing the treatment.
10296	Antibiotic-associated diarrhea typically occurs when the natural balance of bad and good bacteria in the intestinal tract is disturbed. This causes the harmful bacteria to proliferate resulting to frequent bowel movements. Often, it is mild and can clears up after several days or less.
10297	Antibiotic-caused colitis is an infectious disease affecting the colon. Like the typical colitis, it is caused by C. difficile, which is also present among individuals who are taking antibiotic treatment. This infection commonly occurs in hospitals.
10298	Antimicrobial resistance refers to the ability of bacteria to resist the effects of certain drugs. In this case some bacterial infections become difficult to treat since doctors have to search for a new antidote to treat diseases. Antimicrobial resistance can lead to more serious diseases such as bacteremia, where the bacteria have contaminated the blood.
10299	Antiphospholipid syndrome, simply called "APLS" or "APS", is a disorder of coagulation, which causes pregnancy-related complications such as preeclampsia, miscarriage and preterm deliver. It also causes blood clots in both veins and arteries. The syndrome occurs because of the production of antibodies against phosphilipids. This disorder is characterized by antibodies against B2 glycoprotein I and cardiolipin. Antiphospholipid syndrome is usually seen in conjunction with other autoimmune-related diseases. In some cases, Antiphospholipid syndrome can lead to high risk of death and dramatic organ failure caused by generalized thrombosis.
10300	Antisocial personality disorder (APD) is a mental disorder characterized by a persistent pattern and violation of and disregard for the rights of others, which begin in early childhood or adolescence and continue into adulthood. Features of Antisocial personality disorder include manipulation and deceit.
10301	Antithrombin is a small protein molecule, which is responsible for inactivating several enzymes of the coagulation system. It consists of 432 amino acids and contains 3 disulfide bonds as well as 4 possible "glycosylation" sites. The role of antithrombin in regulating normal blood coagulation is demonstrated by the relationship between acquired and inherited antithrombin deficiencies. This relationship is also seen in the increased risk of developing thrombotic disease. Antithrombin deficiency usually appears to patient with recurrent pulmonary embolism and venous thrombosis.
10302	Alpha 1-antitrypsin deficiency is a genetic defect caused by an abnormal production of alpha-1 antitrypsin, a protein that thrives in the liver cells. The lack of this protein may cause severe disorders in the different organs and weakness of the immune system.
10303	Anton syndrome, also known as "Anton's blindness" and "Anton-Babinski syndrome", is a very rare symptom of brain damage that occurs in the occipital lobe. Anton-Babinski syndrome is named after Gabriel Anton and Joseph Babinski. Individuals who suffer from Anton syndrome are considered "cortically blind", but insist they are capable of seeing even with evidence of their blindness. Blindness is usually dismissed by the suffered of Anton syndrome through confabulation. This type of symptom is commonly seen after a stroke, but could also occur after experiencing head injury. Anton syndrome can be caused by damage in the portion of the brain responsible for detecting the absence or presence of vision or damages to the part of the brain responsible for eyesight.
10304	Anuria otherswise known as the Anuresis is a medical condition where there is inability to urinate because of the kidney failed to function or due to diseases like kidney stones.
10305	Aortic aneurysm is a general term referring to the swelling of the aorta, usually caused by an underlying weakness in the aorta's wall. Although stretched vessels may only cause discomfort, aortic aneurysm may result in rupture, which causes massive internal hemorrhage, severe pain and a quick death if not treated promptly.
10306	Aortic arch interruption, also commonly known as "interrupted aortic arch", is an extremely rare heart defect wherein the aorta did not complete its development - did not form a complete tube or the aorta has a hole in the muscle wall. As such, patients with an aortic arch interruption have a gap between the descending and ascending thoracic aorta. Majority of patients with this condition have other cardiac-related anomalies, such as bicuspid aortic valve, truncus arteriosus, aortic stenosis or ventricular septal defects. As such, treatment of aortic arch interruption would depend on the presence of any of the associated defects.
10307	Aortic coarctation is a condition characterized by narrowing of the aorta in an area where the "ductus arteriosus" inserts. There are three types of aortic coarctation - preductal, ductal and postductal coarctation. In preductal coarctation, the narrowing is near the ductus arteriosus. Severe cases of preductal coarctation, blood flow to the lower body to the narrowing could become dependent on a patent ductus arteriosus. When this happens, its closure can become life threatening and lead to hypoplastic development of the aorta. In ductal coarctation, the narrowing occurs along the insertion of the "ductus arteriosus". This type of condition usually develops when the ductus arteriosus closes. In postductal coarctation, the narrowing is far from the instertion of the ductus arteriosus. Newborns with this type of aortic coarctation may become critically sick after birth. Ductal aortic coarctation is more common in adults and is associated with hypertension, weak pulses in lower extremeties and notching of the ribs.
10308	Aortic dissection is a condition wherein the wall of the aorta tears, causing blood to flow between the layers of the aorta wall and forcing the layers apart. Aortic dissection is a life threatening condition and is considered as a medical emergency because it could lead to a quick death even with appropriate treatments. If the dissection tears the aorta through all its three layers, rapid and massive blood loss would occur. Aortic dissection that result in rupture have 80% mortality rate. Almost 50% of patients with aortic dissention die before they reach the hospital.
10309	Supravalvular aortic stenosis (SVAS) is a fixed form of congenital left ventricular outflow tract (LVOT) obstruction that arises as a localized or a diffuse narrowing of the ascending aorta beyond the superior margin of the sinuses of Valsalva. It is responsible for less than 7% of all fixed forms of congenital LVOT obstructive lesions. SVAS may arise sporadically, as a manifestation of elastin arteriopathy, or as part of Williams syndrome (also known as Williams-Beuren syndrome), a genetic disorder with autosomal dominant inheritance.
10310	Aortic valve regurgitation is also known as aortic incompetence or insufficiency. This medical condition occurs when the heart's aortic valve does not close tightly, causing some of the blood to that has been pumped out to leak back. This leakage will result to preventing the heart to supply blood to the rest of the body, causing the patient to always feel tired and short of breath.
10311	Aortic valve stenosis (AS) is a "valvular" heart disease caused by the incomplete opening of the aortic valve. Normally, the aortic valves control the direction of blood flow from the left ventricle to the aorta. When the aortic valve is in good working condition, it does not obstruct the flow of blood. Aortic valve stenosis is a common disorder, affecting about 2% of individuals over 65 years old, 3% of patients over 75 and 4% of people over 85 years old. Since the global population is aging, the prevalence of Aortic valve stenosis is increasing.
10312	Apert syndrome is a congenital disorder commonly known as "acrocephalosyndactyly". This disorder is classified as a "branchial arch syndrome", which affects the first branchial arch, responsible for the maxilla and mandible. Apert syndrome causes lasting and widespread effects to individuals because branchial arches are important in the fetus development.
10313	Aphasia is a language disorder resulting from damage to segments of the brain that are responsible for language; usually on the left brain hemisphere. It often occurs all of a sudden usually as a result of stroke or head injury. In some cases, it progresses gradually. In both cases, the result is remarkable impairment in writing, reading, expression and language understanding
10314	Aphthous stomatitis is a form of mouth ulcer that presents a painful open sore within the mouth, which is caused by a break in the patient's mucous membrane. Also known as aphthous ulcer or "Sutton's disease", the term "aphtha" means ulcer. Aphthous stomatitis is characterized by repeated painful discrete areas of ulceration. Recurrent Aphthous stomatitis (RAD) is distinguished from other diseases by their multiplicity, chronicity and tendency to recur. RAD is one of the most common oral diseases, accounting to 10% of the population. Females are more affected by Aphthous stomatitis than men are. However, over 35% of patients with RAD have a family history of this disease.
10315	Aphthous ulcers are more commonly known as canker sores. These are characterized by the development of small and shallow lesions on the soft tissues in your mouth, under the tongue, or insides of the cheeks or lips, as well as at the base of the gums. Often , it will usually go away naturally after a few weeks or so.
10316	Apiphobia is the fear of bees or bee stings, a common phobia among people. Derived from the Latin words "apis" for honeybee, Apiphobia is a specific phobia - an abnormal fee of bees. Apiphobia is a type of zoophobia common in young children, which could prevent them from participating in any activities outdoors. Older people with Apiphobia can control this fear more easily. However, a few cases of Apiphobia in adults, such as Adam Savage of MythBusters, may show extreme fear of bees. One method of overcoming Apiphobia in children is to train them in facing their fears.
10317	Aplastic anemia is a condition wherein the bone marrow does not produce enough new cells to replenish the blood cells. The word "aplastic" refers to the marrow that suffers from aplasia, making it unable to function normally. Anemia is the disorder that results in having lesser red blood cells than normal, which are needed to function properly. Although anemia refers to low levels of red blood cells, Aplastic anemia differs due to the lower counts of all blood cell types - platelets, white blood cells and red blood cells.
10318	Apnea is a condition that is characterized by the sudden or spontaneous loss of breathing for 20 seconds or more. Infantile apnea, as its name suggest, occurs in children under 1 year old.
10319	Postanesthetic apnea is a rare genetic disorder that is characterized by sensitivity to any anesthetic agents, particularly those derived from drugs like choline. When a person with sleep apnea is administered with anesthetic drugs, the muscles responsible for lung function become paralyzed.
10320	Apocrine duct Occlusion, commonly known as the Fox-Fordyce disease, is an uncommon skin disorder, affecting male and children, but is more common in women between 13 and 35 years old. This condition is characterized by the sudden development of itchy bumps usually around hair follicles of nipples, underarm areas and pubic region.
10321	Apparent mineralocorticoid excess (AME) is a potentially fatal genetic disorder and autosomal recessive cause of hypokalaemia, prenatal and postnatal growth failure, undetectable levels of aldosterone and renin and hypertension, which responds to treatments using glucocorticoid. Apparent mineralocorticoid excess is an extremely rare disorder, accounting to only 60 patients recorded for the past 20 years. Apparent mineralocorticoid excess is a result of mutations of the HSD11B2 gene, which is responsible for encoding the kidney isozyme "11B-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase". This isozyme inactivates the circulating cortisol to the less-active metabolite cortisone, which leads to an elevated amount of cortisol in the kidney. Note that high concentrations of cortisol could activate the "mineralocorticoid receptor", which leads to an aldosterone-like effect in the patient's kidneys. This occurrence causes hypernatremia, hypokalemia and hypertension. Apparent mineralocorticoid excess can also be caused by licorice ingestion, which blocks 11-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase and increase cortisol activity. Early and aggressive treatment of Apparent mineralocorticoid excess can prevent and improve the mortality and morbidity of end-organ damage rates. Diagnosis is made by DNA and hormonal analysis.
10322	Appendicitis, also known as epityphlitis, is a condition wherein an inflammation of the appendix occurs. Although mild cases of appendicitis can be resolved without any treatment, most require removal of the appendix.
10323	Apple peel syndrome, also known as Jejunal Atresia, is an extremely rare genetic disorder wherein patients are born without a small part of the fold from the stomach membrane connecting the small intestines to the abdomen. This condition occurs in 1 of 270 babies born alive. It is the most common intestinal obstruction found in one third of all babies.
10324	Apraxia is a neurological disorder that is characterized by the loss of ability to carry out or execute learned movements, such as speech, despite having the physical ability and desire to perform such movements.
10325	An apudoma is any endocrine tumor that arises from an APUD cell (APUD, meaning amine precursor uptake and decarboxylation) properties. These cells, which are derived from neural crest cells, are from structures such as the prostate, pancreas and ampulla of Vater. First identified in 1975, Apudoma is a very general term. As such, most doctors and scientists prefer to use a more specific term when possible, such as apudoma of gall bladder.
10326	Arachnitis, commonly known as Arachnoiditis, is a severe condition characterized by intense stinging, burning pain and various neurological problems, which could lead to scarring, irritation and blinding of blood vessels ad its nerve roots.
10327	This disease is also known as "spider fingers" or archromachia. It is referred to as "spider fingers" due to the fact that the fingers are slim and long comparing it to the palm like a spider's legs. This disease can occur after birth or later in life. This disease can happen without any medical conditions but sometimes it is related with some medical condition for instance Marfan Syndrome. Other term for this disease is Dolichostenomelia.
10328	Contractural Beals Type Arachnodactyly is a very rare genetic disorder also known as Beals Syndrome. It is characterized by permanently flexed fingers, abnormally shaped ears and the permanent fixation of affected joints like hips, fingers, knees and elbows that is in a flexed position.
10329	It is an uncommon disease which involves cysts that are fluid-filled that forms in the arachnoid membrane that is a thin layer of tissue that creates a membrane that covers the brain and the spinal cord It can start during childhood or can come later during adulthood. The determination of the severity of the disease is based on the location of the cyst and how big it is.
10330	Arachnoidal Fibroblastoma, commonly known as Meningioma, is a tumor of the meninges, a part of the brain that protects the spinal cord and brain. This condition can develop in any part of the spinal cord or brain, but usually start in the cerebral hemispheres. Most Arachnoidal Fibroblastoma are benign, but malignant types of this condition occur. This condition accounts to one in every five brain tumors and is mostly found in middle-aged adults.
10331	A disease due to the swelling of the arachnoids which is a membrane that encloses and shields the central nervous system nerves together with the spinal cord and the brain. The swelling can be caused by infections due to viruses or bacteria and can also be caused by chemical irritation. The swelling may cause creation of scar tissue and bonding that results the nerves on the spine to "bond". The disease is usually progressive and treatments differ in its efficiency, the disease is not often cured.
10332	An error of metabolism that is inherent is known as Arakawa's syndrome II. A hereditary disorder caused by the absence of the enzyme tetrahydrofolate-methyltransferase. People who has this disease cannot properly digest methylcobalamin a kind of Vitamin B12. Other terms for this disease are Methionine synthase deficiency, N5-methylhomocysteine transferase deficiency and Tetrahydrofolate-methyltransferase deficiency syndrome.
10333	Acute respiratory distress syndrome is a condition in which a patient with underlying disease has a breathing problem. It is a non- specific respiratory disorder that occurs if there is a fluid build up in the lungs that blocks the exchange of gases that provide energy in the body. ARDS is a life threatening disease if failed to provide care immediately and properly.
10334	Aregenetive anemia is a type of anemia in which the bone marrow drastically reduces its production of blood cells. It is a rare but serious condition that can be life-threatening.
10335	ARG deficiency is a rare genetic disorder that is shown by a lack of the arginase enzyme. This enzyme plays a big role in removing nitrogen from the body, and insufficient amounts of arginase can lead to nitrogen poisoning in the blood and cerebrospinal fluid. Effects of nitrogen contamination include mental retardation, spasticity and mental retardation. ARG deficiency is an autosomal recessive disorder.
10336	A hereditary disorder, that causes high level of arginine in the blood. Death is the result for total deficiency while partial deficiency causes hyperammonemia, metabolic alkalosis, convulsions, hepatomegaly, mental retardation and failure to grow.
10337	Argininosuccinic aciduria, also referred to as argininosuccinic academia, an inborn condition that results to ammonia being accumulated in the urine and the blood. In the earlier days of life it becomes evident, take note that ammonia is toxic particularly in the nervous system. A lack of argininosuccinate lyase enzyme, which is required to get rid of nitrogen from the body, causes ammonia to build up in the blood and urine. A baby infected with argininosuccinic aciduria can appear exhausted and be reluctant to eat, with poorly-controlled breathing rate or body temperature, occurrence of seizures or abnormal body movements, or worse might result to coma.
10338	An intake of elemental silver, silver dust or silver compounds, over exposure to silver salts - typically industrial exposure or medication causes Argyria. The most evident symptom if Argyria is that the skin turns to blue or bluish-grey colored. Argyria may start as generalized or local Argyria. A condition that is related to the eye is called Argyrosis. It is believed that the disorder can be permanent but laser therapy is helpful.
10339	A broken arm is a very common injury that both occur in children and adult. A fracture would usually require immediate medical attention and surgery to realign the bone.
10340	Ocassionally it is called as Chiari II malformation or ACM, it is is a hereditary deformity of the brain. It is an unusual deformity where the support of the brain goes through the upper spinal canal. This disorder happens to approximately every child born with both spina bifida and hydrocephalus. Chiari malformations I, II and III is associated with the apparent irregularity of the hindbrain which was described by German pathologist Hans Chiari in the late 1800's. Afterwards, further investigators supplemented a fourth (Chiari IV) malformation. The severity scale is rated I - IV, with IV as the most severe. Arnold Chiari Malformation particularly refers to the Chiari II malformation.
10341	Arrhythmogenic Right Ventricular Cardiomyopathy (ARVC) is an genetic cardiac muscle disorder characterized by a damaged muscle that can be gradually replaced by fat and scar tissue. This serious heart disease is one of the highly recognized causes of sudden death among teenagers. ARVC can cause some abnormal heart rhythms that can result to the weakening of the heart's pumping action. In most cases, this medical condition is not fatal and does not significantly affect the quality of life. However, a number of patients usually develop some other complications and would require constant medical attention.
10342	This disorder is an unusual heart ailment that involves primarily right ventricle. It causes the muscle tissue of right ventricle to be changed by fibrous or fatty tissue which affects the capability of the heart to pump blood. It is distinguished by hypokinetic parts relating the free wall of the right ventricle, with fibro-fatty substitute of the right ventricular myocardium, together with related arrhythmias starting in the right ventricle. It is also referred to as arrhythmogenic right ventricular cardiomyopathy or ARVC.
10343	Arsenic Poisoning is a type of poisoning which results from ingestion of food and fluid containig the chemical arsenic.
10344	Arterial tortuosity is an unusual hereditary connective tissue disorder distinguished by elongated and widespread tortuosity of the main arteries involving the aorta. The autosomal recessive acquired and location of the gene responsible is in the chromosome 20q13.
10345	Arteriosclerosis is a general term for several disorders causing thickening, loss of elasticity, and hardening of the walls of the arteries with the most common form called atherosclerosis.
10346	Arteriovenous Fistula is an abnormal passageway between an artery and a vein, which can either be present at birth, created surgically intended for hemodialysis treatments for patients with end-stage kidney failures, or acquired either by trauma or erosion of an aneurysm in an artery. As a disease, arteriovenous fistula is referred to as arteriovenous malformation, a congenital disorder of the connections between arteries and veins in the cardiovascular system of the body.
10347	Arteriovenous malformation or commonly known as AVM is an inborn disorder distinguished with a multifaceted, twisted web of arteries and veins. The hereditary spreading guide of AVM (if any) are unidentified, and AVM is not usually considered to be an inborn disorder--unless in the framework of a particular genetic disease. AVM may be evident at birth it may appear as a blemish that resembles a hemangioma. Comparing to other areas of the skin the skin of the AVM is warmer to the touch. The blemish is dark red. Throbbing in the mass can be noticed from the fast moving among arteries and veins.
10348	Arteritis is the inflammation of the walls of an artery. It usually results from a contamination or auto-immune reaction. Kinds a) Temporal arteritis - also called as giant cell arteritis. It is particularly arteritis of the vessels providing the head, eyes and optic nerves, mainly the temporal artery. This is common in old aged individuals. A swollen head artery results to headache. b) Takayasu's arteritis - distresses the aorta and its branches. A thrombo-obliterative procedure of the enormous vessels starting in the aortic arch, it takes place usually in young women. Radial and carotid pulses are usually destroyed. Due to the distressed movements it causes the skin to change. Other effects may be hair loss and deteriorated skin and deteriorate of the skin and its branches by primary muscle atrophy. c) Polyarteritis nodosa - distresses the medium-sized arteries, particularly those of renal, coronary, hepatic and skeletal muscle systems. Arteritis can be partly caused by the fungal pathogen Candida albicans.
10349	Arthritis is a condition that usually involves damage on the joints of the body. For people older than fifty-five years, it is the leading cause of disability. Arthritis is a medicinal term, which mean any kind of joint swelling but the term is usually used to refer to age-related osteoarthritis that is the most usual kind. Though, there are other kinds of arthritis involving rheumatoid arthritis (second-most usual, involving younger adults and juveniles), and different kinds of minor arthritis which are caused by a primary condition: immediate arthritis caused by an infection, psoriatic arthritis from psoriasis, gonococcal arthritis from gonorrhea, and the like. Several probable circumstances with arthritis-like signs involve ankylosing spondylitis and gout.
10350	Still's disease, is a kind of arthritis that occurs in children. Children with Still's disease often experience common arthritic symptoms adults suffer, and about 300,000 children in the United States are affected by the disease.
10351	Juvenile idiopathic arthritis (JIA) previously identified as juvenile rheumatoid arthritis (JRA) is the most ordinary type of unrelenting arthritis in children. Occasionally it is called as juvenile chronic arthritis (JCA) a term that is not exact as JIA does not include all types of persistent childhood arthritis. Arthritis causes the lining of the joint (synovium) to swell. JIA is a division of arthritis noticeable during childhood, which might be temporary and self-limited or persistent. It varies considerably from arthritis usually noticed in adults (osteoarthritis, rheumatoid arthritis), and other kinds of arthritis that can present in infancy which are persistent conditions.
10352	Arthritis, septic (septic arthritis) is an inflammation of a joint that results from a bacterial infection, or, in rare cases, from a viral or fungal infection. Also sometimes called infectious arthritis or bacterial arthritis, this disease is commonly acute but has the potential to become chronic.
10353	Arthritis, thumb (or thumb arthritis) is characterized by inflammation of the joint of the wrist and the base of the thumb (basal or carpometacarpal joint). Thumb arthritis is also alternatively called basal joint arthritis.
10354	Arthrocentesis is a procedure in which a syringe is inserted to collect synovial fluid from an infected joint. This procedure is used to diagnose illnesses such as gout and arthritis. It is also known as joint aspiration.
10355	Arthrogryposis also referred to as Arthrogryposis Multiplex Congenita, an unusual hereditary disorder that results to multiple joint contractures and is distinguished by weakness of the muscle and fibrosis. It is a not a progressive disease. The ailment obtains its name from Greek, exactly meaning "bent or curved joints'. There are several identified subgroups of AMC, with varying signs, symptoms, causes and the like. In several cases, a small number of joints might be affected and the variety of movement might be just about normal. In the majority type of arthrogryposis, hands, wrists, elbows, shoulders, hips, feet and knees are affected. In the majority rigorous types, almost each joint is involved, as well as the jaw and back. Normally, the contractures are accompanied by muscle weakness that adds limitation to movement. AMC is normally balanced and entails each four extremities with a number of dissimilarity seen.
10356	Arylsulfatase A deficiency also referred to as Metachromatic leukodystrophy (MLD) is the very ordinary type of a family of hereditary ailments identified as the leukodystrophies, ailments that involves the enlargement and/or growth of myelin, the fatty layer which works as an insulator around nerve fibers all through the inner and marginal nervous systems. Arylsulfatase A results to a damaging swelling of fatty material in the body.
10357	Asbestos Poisoning is a medical condition whereby the person is poisoned because of too much exposure or even ingestion of asbestos fibers. It may later on cause asbestosis, mesothelioma and lung cancer.
10358	Asbestosis is a persistent seditious medical condition upsetting the parenchymal tissue of the lungs. It happens following a long-term, serious contact to asbestos like in mining, and is consequently viewed as a work-related lung ailment. Sufferers have rigorous dyspnea or shortness of breath and are at an augmented danger concerning numerous diverse kinds of lung cancer. As apparent details are not at all times stressed in non-technical writing, care must be taken to differentiate among several types of related ailments. According to the World Health Organisation (WHO), these can be defined as asbestosis, lung cancer, and mesothelioma or usually a very unusual type of cancer, but growing in occurrence as people exposed to asbestos age.
10359	Ascariasis is a human infection caused by the parasitic roundworm Ascaris lumbricoides. Maybe one quarter of the world's inhabitants is infected and ascariasis is mainly common in humid regions and in regions of poor hygiene. Additional types of the species Ascaris are parasitic and can cause infections in domestic animals. Disease happens during eating of food contaminated with feces having Ascaris eggs. The larvae hatch hideaway all the way through the intestine, arrive at the lungs, and lastly travel up the respiratory tract. Starting there they are then re-swallowed and grow up in the intestine, growing up to 30 cm (12 in.) in length and securing itself to the intestinal wall. Diseases are typically asymptomatic especially if the quantity of worms is little. They may nevertheless be associated with swelling, fever, and diarrhea, and serious harms may extend if the worms travel to other portions of the body.
10360	Ascending aortic dissection is a cardiovascular disease in which the walls of the ascending aorta are split open due to pressure.
10361	Ascites otherwise known as the Peritoneal Cavity Fluid or the Peritoneal Fluid Excess or the Hydroperitoneum or the Abdominal Dropsy, is the medical condition whereby there is an accumulation of fluid in the cavity located in the abdomen called Peritoneal.
10362	ASD (or atrial septal defect) is a congenital condition characterized by a hole in the wall between the left and right atria (the two upper chambers of the heart).
10363	Aseptic meningitis symptoms happens the same as meningitis without the location contributing organism. The disease causes the lining of the brain or meninges to swell and a pyogenic bacterial source is not present. History of distinguishing symptoms and certain examination findings is the basis to diagnose meningitis. Using lumbar puncture it should show an increase in the amount of leukocytes visible in the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF). Several cases of aseptic meningitis embody infection with viruses or mycobacteria that cannot be noticed with custom techniques. Although the start of polymerase chain effect has augmented the capability of clinicians to identify viruses for instance cytomegalovirus, enterovirus, and herpes virus in the CSF, several viruses can still escape detection.
10364	Asherman's syndrome also referred to as uterine synechiae presents a situation distinguished by the occurrence of marks inside the uterine opening.
10365	An unusual genetic disorder resulted from a deficit of an enzyme glycoprotein (aspartylglucosaminidase). It is associated to a Finnish ailment heritage wherein a set of ailments results from a transformation in a single gene distinguished with elevated occurrence in Finland comparing to the rest of the world.
10366	Asperger's Syndrome is a developmental disorder affecting a child's ability to socialize and communicative effectively with others. Most of the time children with this syndrome exhibit social awkwardness and centrally focused interest in specific topics. It is believed to be a milder end spectrum of other pervasive developmental disorders.
10367	The term is given to a broad diversity of ailments resulted from the genus of fungi Aspergillus. The usual types are pulmonary aspergilloma, invasive aspergillosis and allergic bronchopulmonary aspergillosis.
10368	A disorder that uses a newly born baby stops to breathe on its own the minute after birth. It is also referred to as deprivation of oxygen or hypoxia. This is usually caused by the mother's blood pressure dropping or complications during the delivery with blood flow to the infant's brain. The hypoxic injury can happen to most of an infant's organs like the heart, liver, lungs, gut and kidneys although damage in the brain is the usual concern and possibly the last to be healed. In worst cases, the baby survives but is left with brain damage this shows in developmental delay.
10369	Aspiration pneumonia starts because of a foreign material entered the bronchial tree, commonly gastric or oral contents and is considered as bronchopneumonia. The swelling is augmented depending on the acidity of the aspirate, a chemical pneumonitis may develop and bacterial pathogens.
10370	Asplenia is the lack ('a-') of spleen with its normal function and related with several severe infection dangers. Hyposplenism is used to refer to the decreases ('hypo-') splenic performance, but comparing it to asplenism it is not that severe. In general, splenic hypoplasia and asplenia refers to the entire or partial absence of the splenic function. Hereditary/congenital splenic abnormalities are commonly related with abnormalities in several organ systems, particularly cardiac irregularities but it can happen separately. Polyspenia is also regularly related with hereditary/congenital splenic abnormalities Loss of splenic function usually occurs as a result of surgical removal or autosplenectomy or, infarction in patients with hemoglobinopathies. Polysplenia, or bilateral left-sidedness, is also frequently associated with congenital cardiac anomalies.
10371	Astasia-abasia refers to the lack of ability to walk or stand normally. Individuals affected by this disease usually presents trouble in walking, tilting wildly in several directions and only falls when they a physician or family member is nearby. Patients cannot stand up straight except when assisted by someone. Although movements of the legs can be done normally while lying or sitting down.
10372	Asthenia is a medical term referring to the feeling of weakness without actually losing strength. General asthenia happens to a lot of chronic wasting ailments like cancer and anemia and most likely developed in ailments of the adrenal gland. Asthenia may partially affect specific organs or systems.
10373	Asthma is persistent condition affecting the respiratory system where in the airway seldom tightens, swells, and is lined with extreme amounts of mucus, usually in reaction to one or more triggers. The episodes may be set off by events such as contact to an environmental allergen or stimulant like cold air, moist air, warm air, excessive exercise or emotional stress. Common cold can set off the episodes on children.
10374	Asthma, childhood (childhood asthma), the most chronic illness affecting children, is characterized by continuous inflammation of the airways leading to the lungs.
10375	Asthma, exercise-induced (exercise-induced asthma) pertains to coughing, wheezing, or shortness of breath during exercise or any vigorous physical activity. As with most other types of asthma, exercise-induced asthma results from the inflammation of the bronchial tubes of the lungs.
10376	Astigmatism is characterized by a mild defect in the curvature of the eye which causes blurry vision. Astigmatism is an easily treatable condition. In astigmatic patients, the cornea or the lens of one eye has a slightly different curvature in one direction from the other. It comes in two forms: corneal astigmatism, characterized by a distorted cornea; and lenticular astigmatism, characterized by a distorted lens.
10377	Astrocytoma is a major intracranial lumps resulting from astrocyte cells of the brain. In the the cerebral hemispheres, in the optic nerve, in the posterior fossa and seldom in the spinal cord is where it may appear. The WHO provided a four point level basing in the histological grade of the lump.
10378	Ataxia means "lack of order" in Greek where the term originated. It consists of nasty in-coordination of muscle movements which is considered as a neurological sign and symptom. Ataxia is an exact medical sign entailing dysfunction of potions of the nervous system that manage movement for instance the cerebellum. Every September 25th of each year the "International Ataxia Awareness Day" is observed.
10379	Ataxia telangiectasia is a main immunodeficiency disorder that happens in an anticipated occurrence of 1 in 40,000 to 1 in 300,000 births. Other term for this disorder is Louis-Bar syndrome or Boder-Sedgwick syndrome. It is a congenital progressive multi-system ailment. Initially it starts as progressive cerebellar ataxia the followed by conjunctive and cutaneous telangiectasias, immune deficiencies, and recurrent sinopulmonary infections in later stages. There is also a related 100-fold augmented mortality danger. Cerebellar atrophy is most outstanding in the part of vermis as well as augmented neighboring cerebrospinal spaces and prominent folia using MRI.
10380	Atelectasis is the term used for the medical state in which there is a partial or complete lung collapse. When the lung collapses, air distribution is affected and this is the when the alveoli become deflated (distinct from pulmonary consolidation). Infant respiratory distress syndrome includes a different kind of atelectasis.
10380	Atelectasis is described as a state in which the lung, in whole or in part, is collapsed or without air. It is a condition where the alveoli are deflated, as distinguished from pulmonary consolidation. Infant respiratory distress syndrome includes another type of atelectasis, and is distinguished and discussed in its own article.
10381	Atelosteogenesis, type II is a rigorous disorder of the bone and cartilage growth. It is very unusual and baby with this disorder are usually stillborn, though some infant survive they die after caused by respiratory failure.
10382	Atheroma is the medical condition where the arteries are thickening or swelling because of the deposition of the plaque on the artery walls.
10383	Atherosclerosis involves the arterial blood vessels. Because of the disposition of the lipoproteins, in the huge portion of the walls of the arteries severe inflammatory response happens. "Furring" or "hardening" of the arteries usually refers to atherosclerosis. Result from the development of several plaques in the arteries. Arteries' functions are carrying oxygen and blood to the heart, brain and other portions of the body. The major outcome of atherosclerosis is referred to as the cardiovascular ailments.
10384	Athetosis is a nonstop flow of sinuous, slow, writhing movements, usually of the hands and feet. Movements that are cause by athetosis are mainly referred to as athetoid movements. It was said that due to the damage to the corpus striatum of the brain and a cut to the motor thalamus that is why Athetosis happens.
10385	Athlete's foot or Tinea pedis which is its other term is a parasitical fungal contamination of the epidermis of the human foot. It is usually caused by a mold that develops in the surface of the skin and then into the skin's living tissue. For severe cases it appears as a widespread "moccasin" pattern seen on the sides and bottom of the foot but usually it appears between the toes. This infection commonly affects male. After acne, athlete's foot is considered as the most common skin disease in the US.
10386	Atonic seizures, also known as drop attacks or akinetic seizures, are a minor kind of seizure. These seizures are characterized by brief lapses in muscle tone that last for up to 15 seconds and can cause no damage. However, the sudden loss of muscle control may lead to falling or loss of balance. It can be diagnosed by electroencephalography, and doesn't need treatment until injuries occur.
10387	Atopic Dermatitis involves the parts of the body which is not in direct contact with the allergen and it is considered as an allergic hypersensitivity. It is a skin disorder distinguished by constant swelling and pruritis. Usually it is congenital and related with allergic rhinitis and asthma.
10388	Atresia a state where in an opening or passage in the body is unusually closed or missing. Examples of Atresia: Biliary atresia - destruction of a part of the bile ducts because of arrested fetal growth, resulting to persistent jaundice and liver injury ranging from biliary stasis to biliary cirrhosis, through splenomegaly as portal hypertension develops. Ovarian follicle atresia - points to the deterioration and consequent resorption of more than one undeveloped ovarian follicles. Vaginal atresia - hereditary occlusion of the vagina or subsequence sticking together of the walls of the vagina. Esophageal atresia - involves the alimentary area resulting to the esophagus to end prior to linking normally to the stomach. Choanal atresia - obstruction of the back of the nasal opening, typically by irregular bony or soft tissue. Anorectal atresia - deformity of the opening among the rectum and anus. Pulmonary atresia - deformity of the pulmonary valve where in the valve orifice stops to grow. Aural atresia - a hereditary deformity of the outer ear or pinna. Intestinal atresia - deformity of the intestine Coping skills Always provide support to family members or friends who have this disorder. Write down or keep records of the individual's medical history, this will help doctors to keep track and know about the condition of the individual affected. Always communicate with the affected individual because he might want to know where he is at and what has he achieved and as well as the progress he made. Even though each situation varies, take note that a lot of children with hereditary heart abnormalities grow up productive and healthy.
10389	Atrial Fibrillation is an abnormal rhythm of the heart characterized by quivering instead of normal beating. This decreases the efficiency of the heart to move blood increasing the incidence of stroke because of the formation of blood clots in the heart.
10390	Atrial Flutter is the arrhythmia of the heart where there is a rapid beating in its upper chambers due to irregular signals causing an irregular heartbeat.
10391	Atrial myxoma a tumor that is not cancerous located in the upper left or right portion of the heart. It develops on the wall that divides the two sides of the heart. The familial type of the condition also includes tumors in several parts of the body like in the skin.
10392	Atrial septal defect (ASD) is an abnormality or a hereditary heart defect in the interatrial septum of the heart because of the embryonic foramen to stop from closing normally.
10393	Atrioventricular canal defect is a condition that pertains to a number of congenital heart abnormalities, including the presence of a hole between the heart's chambers as well as valve anomalies involving blood flow regulation.
10394	Atrioventricular septal defect formerly known as "common atrioventricular canal" (CAVC) or "endocardial cushion defect" distinguished by a deficit of the heart's atrioventricular septum. It results from an abnormal or insufficient union of the lower and higher endocardial cushions with the middle part of the atrial septum and the muscular part of the ventricular septum. The Atrioventricular septal defect is divided into two forms which are "partial" and "complete" forms. In partial AVSD there is a partial defect in the primum or lower portion of the atrial septum but does not have straight intraventricular communication while in complete AVSD, there is a huge ventricular element underneath each or both the higher or lower bridging leaflets of the AV valve.
10395	Atrophic vaginitis is also referred to as vaginal atrophy or urogenital atrophy it is the swelling of the vagina and the outer urinary tract because of the thinning and reduction of the tissues and the decrease in lubrication. This is mainly caused by the lack of reproductive hormone estrogen. The decrease in reproductive hormone estrogen occurs usually during pre menopause and increases during post menopause but these conditions can be a result of other situations.
10396	Atrophy is a general physiological process, it is either the partial or complete wasting away of a part of the body or a part of the body being useless. Size of a cell, tissue or organ can be wasted away with this disorder.
10397	Attachment disorder pertains to a relatively rare but nonetheless serious mental problem characterized by the inability of infants and young children to form healthy bonds with parents and/or their primary caregivers.
10398	Attention Deficit Hyperactivity is it classified as a neuro-behavioural developmental disorder which affects 5% of the world's population. It is usually acquired during childhood, and is distinguished by a constant pattern of distraction or hyperactivity and forgetfulness, poor inclination control or impulsivity, and being distracted and over the years it has been increasingly seen on adults. Children around 60% who have this disorder carries it as they grow.
10399	Auditory Processing Disorder other wise known as the Central Auditory Processing Disorder or the CAPD for brevity is a medical condition where the person affected, usually children of school age, cannot process information they received through hearing because their ears and brain do not fully coordinate.
10400	Auditory processing disorder (APD) is a condition in which auditory information is not properly processed when it reaches the brain. It is a form of dyslexia that involves the central nervous system. People with this disorder have a difficulty recognizing the differences amongst sounds.
10401	Autism is a brain disorder associated with a variety of developmental problems, which impairs in social interaction and communication causing restricted and repetitive behavior. The manifestations are often observed before the child turns three.
10402	Autoimmune hemolytic anemia it is a kind of hemolytic anemia where in the immune system of the body that attacks its own red blood cells (RBCs) which leads to the destruction of the red blood cell which is called as hemolysis. On the RBC's surface antibodies and related complement system components become permanent. With anti-globulin test the antibodies can be noticed also referred to as the direct Coombs test. Methyl-dopa and flaurabine drugs can induce AIHA.
10403	Autoimmune hepatitis is an abnormal presentation of human leukocyte antigen (HLA) class II on the exterior of hepatocytes it might be because of the hereditary predisposition or severe liver infection that results to a cell-mediated immune response in opposition of the body's liver causing autoimmune hepatitis.
10404	Autoimmune peripheral neuropathy is a term for the nerves of the secondary nervous system being damaged that can result from either diseases of the nerve or from the systemic illness side-effects. Secondary neuropathies differ in their presentation and origin and can affect the neuromuscular or nerve junction.
10405	Autoimmune polyendocrinopathy syndrome, type I is a very unusual autoimmune disorder distinguished by autoimmune polyendocrinopathy (APE), candidiasis (C) and ectodermal dysplasia (ED). Theh disorder is also called as candidiasis-hypoparathyroidism-Addison's disease-syndrome following its major features: * Mild immune deficiency that leads to mucosal and cutaneous infections alog with candida yeasts. The function of the spleen is also reduced or referred to as asplenism. * Parathyroid gland's autoimmune dysfunction that leads to hypocalcemia and the adrenal gland. Other ailments that are related: hypothyroidism hypogonadism and infertility vitiligo (depigmentation of the skin) alopecia (baldness) malabsorption pernicious anemia chronic active (autoimmune) hepatitis In contrast to type 2, this type takes over an autosomal recesive style and it is because of a defect in AIRE or autoimmune regulator a gene that is seen on the 21st chromosomes. A transcription factor, normal function AIRE exhibits to display immune lenience for antigens from endocrine organs.
10406	Autonomic dysfunction it is a disease of the sympathetic and parasympathetic divisions of the autonomic nervous system. It has components placed in the Central nervous system and peripheral nervous system. Autonomic dysfunction can be related with hypothalamic ailments, spinal cord disorders, brain stem disorders, and peripheral nervous system. Signs can include destruction of the vegetative functions that includes the preservation of heart rate, blood pressure pupil function, reproductive and injury physiology, sweating and digestion.
10407	Autonomic dysreflexia is a severe state in which the autonomic nervous system overreacts towards certain stimuli felt by the spinal cord. The stimuli causes pressure to the lower part of the spine and leads to the narrowing of the blood vessels and eventually, stroke. This is common among patients who met a spinal cord injury.
10408	Avascular Necrosis otherwise known as the Osteonecrosis, aseptic necrosis and ischemic necrosis, is a disease which results to a temporary pr permanent loss of blood supply to the bones leading to bone death and collapse.
10409	Avian influenza pertains to a condition that humans can contract from infected birds. It is more commonly known as bird flu.
10410	Avoidant personality Disorder is a condition marked by extreme shyness, inadequate feelings, sensitivity of being rejected. Individuals with this disorder often feel inferior with others. They tend to avoid situations having potential for conflicts. They are often observed to be clingy, antisocial, dramatic or obsessive.
10411	Axillary hyperhidrosis refers to the extreme sweating of the armpits accompanied by foul odor. It is a common condition in men.
10412	Ayerza's disease, also known as pulmonary hypertension, is a rare disorder that involves the lungs and the pulmonary artery. In this condition, the pulmonary artery becomes pressured thus it is unable to deliver sufficient oxygen to the heart's right ventricle where the lungs pick up oxygen. Exhaustion of the right ventricle may lead to a right-side heart failure, resulting to death.
10413	Azoospermia is a condition whereby there is no or absence of measurable level of sperm in a man's semen which causes infertility.
10414	B-cell lymphoma, also known as Non-Hodgkin lymphoma (NHL), is a heterogenous group of lymphoproliferative malignancies with varying patterns of behavior and responses to treatment. Non-Hodgkin lymphoma is a heterogenous group of lymphoproliferative malignancies with varying patterns of behavior and responses to treatment. NHL usually originates in the lymphoid tissues and can spread to other internal organs. However, unlike Hodgkin's disease, NHL is less predictable and has a greater predilection to extranodal sites.
10415	Babesiosis is an uncommon, vector-borne, malaria-like disease usually caused by ticks or parasites of the genius "Babesia". In areas where babesia is common, such as North America, this disease can be transmitted through blood transfusion.
10416	Baby acne pertains to a skin disease called acne vulgaris affecting newborn infants. Acne vulgaris (or acne) is characterized by inflammatory changes in the skin. Acne lesions are popularly known as pimples or zits, and are more common among adolescents.
10417	Baby blues is a type of depression experience by mothers after giving birth. It commonly known and diagnosed as the post-partum depression or the post natal depression of mothers after childbirth.
10418	Baby bottle tooth decay is a common condition among infants. It is where a child's milk teeth decays due to the food he or she consumes. It usually damages the front teeth.
10419	Bacillary angiomatosis (BA) is a bacterial disease brought about by two kinds of bacteria under the Bartonella family: Bartonella henselae and Bartonella quintana. The infection is usually characterized by tumor-like lesions in the skin and other internal organs of the body, and can manifest in people affected by AIDS.
10420	Back curves, or scoliosis is a skeletal deformity in which the back bone curves into an S or C shape. This is a common skeletal illness present among women, but can affect people regardless of age and gender.
10421	Back pain is a relatively common complaint characterized by a painful sensation in the patient's back that may be attributed to a number of conditions.
10422	Bacteremia is a medical condition whereby there is an invasion or spreading of bacteria in the bloodstream of a person thereafter spreading to the other parts of the body resulting into abscesses and inflammation of abdominal cavity.
10423	Bacterial endocarditis it is the swelling and infection of the interior layers of the heart and usually the valves that resulted from bacteria.
10424	Bacterial food poisoning also generally known as foodborne illness it is an illness that it is caused by ingesting a contaminated food.
10425	Bacterial gastroenteritis is a disease caused by a bacterial toxin or bacterial infection, the most usual agent being salmonella, campylobacter and shigella. About 50% reposrted cases of gastroenteritis as food borne illness are because of norovirus and 20% are severe cases occurred in children because of rotavirus. The third major viral agent is the astrovirus.
10426	Meningitis is an inflammation of the meninges - the protective membranes wrapping the central nervous system. This condition may develop as a result of viruses, bacteria and a number of infectious agents. However, it may also occur in people who recently experience physical injury, those with cancer and others who have a history of drug abuse. Most cases of meningitis resolve without treatment. However, this condition can become severe because the inflammation can damage the spinal cord and the brain, which are both in close proximity to the areas affected by meningitis. Since severe meningitis could cause serious neurological damage or death, immediate medical attention and diagnosis is needed. The most common type of meningitis - infectious meningitis - can be treated with antibiotics alone, but requires continues observation. Other types of meningitis can be prevented through scheduled immunization.
10427	Bacterial pneumonia is an infection of the lungs caused by bacteria. The most common cause is the bacteria Streptococcus pneumoniae (J13.) which is also common in all ages except for newly born babies. Another type of bacteria that causes pneumonia is the Staphylococcus aureus (J15.2) these bacteria are classified as Gram-positive bacteria. For Gram-negative bacteria it is seen less regularly like Klebsiella pneumoniae (J15.0), Haemophilus influenzae (J14.), Escherichia coli (J15.5), Moraxella catarrhalis and Pseudomonas aeruginosa (J15.1) are the most usual bacteria. The gut is where these bacteria reside and enters the lungs when the lung's content is inhaled like vomit. Not unlike typical bacteria, "atypical" bacteria are commonly seen in young adults and teenagers and are less sever and needs various antibiotics. Examples of "atypical" bacteria are Chlamydophila pneumoniae (J16.0), Coxiella burnetti, Legionella pneumophila and Mycoplasma pneumoniae (J15.7).
10428	Bacterial Vaginosis Is a type of vaginitis resulting to overgrowth of organisms present in the vagina, which upsets the natural balance of bacteria in the vagina. Bacterial vaginitis can be present in many pregnant women without even knowing that they have it. Sometimes bacterial vaginitis in early stages is often asymptomatic.
10429	Bad breath is known medically as halitosis. It pertains to bad odor emanating from an individual's oral cavity, usually as a result of poor hygiene, certain diets, or bacterial infections.
10430	BAER is an acronym for Brainstem Auditory Evoked Response and it is test measures of ear and brain wave activity that happens in reaction to clicks or certain pitch. There are 3 waves (1, 3 and 5) set for the ear, BAER uses a computer that averages over time to determine background noise to produce an averaged reaction of the auditory gateway to an auditory stimuli.
10431	Baillarger syndrome is a rare neurological food-related condition which can be acquired at birth. It is also known as Frey's syndrome.
10432	Baker's cyst is characterized by a sensation of bulging or tightness accompanied by pain behind the knee. The painful sensation worsens when the affected knee is moved or fully extended. Baker's cyst is also alternatively known as popliteal cyst.
10433	Balance disorders are impairments or complete loss of muscle coordination. A common balance disorder is ataxia, in which involuntary trembling of some parts of the body take place during voluntary motion. This becomes a hindrance in performing precise movements. Balance disorders are a symptom of different defects in the muscular as well as the central nervous system.
10434	Balanitis is a medical condition where there is inflammation of the head of the penis names as the glans.
10435	Balantidiasis is an infection of the intestine with parasitic protozoa (Balantidium coli) that results in swelling of the intestine. The disease is commonly acquired thru direct or indirect exposure with pig fecal matter.
10436	Baldness refers to extreme hair loss from an individual's scalp, and may be either permanent or temporary. Baldness is known medically as Alopeicia.
10436	Baldness refers to extreme hair loss from an individual's scalp, and may be either permanent or temporary. Baldness is known medically as Alopeicia.
10437	Ballard syndrome is an uncommon condition of the liver and spleen that is enlarged it happens in parts of a weakened bone. The disorder is a congenital and commonly prevailing trait. It usually happens as an isolated dysmelia though it can also happen with other abnormalities as part of several hereditary syndromes.
10438	Balloon angioplasty of the heart is an alternative procedure to bypass surgery in order to treat atherosclerosis. In this process the tip of a rubber balloon is threaded into the affected arteries and then inflated to crush atherosclerotic plaques that cause blockage. This procedure has been proven effective to treat coronary heart disease, but blockage may recur.
10439	Ballooning mitral valve syndrome is a relatively common heart defect characterized by the failure of the mitral valve between the left ventricle and the left atrium to close properly. It is also called mitral valve prolapse or MVP.
10440	Bannayan-Zonana syndrome or other term is Bannayan-Riley-Ruvalcaba syndrome is an unusual hamartomatous disorder through the incidence of several subcutaneous macrocephaly, lipomas and hemangiomas. In an autosomal prevailing form the disease is inherited though wild cases have been documented. Hamartomatous polyposis syndrome is the family where the disease belongs that also involves juvenile polyposis, Peutz-Jeghers syndrome and Cowden syndrome. BZS lesions are slowly developing and simply resectable. Intracranial association and visceral may happen in unusual conditions and can result to bleeding and indicative automatic compression particularly of the spinal cord or spinal nerve roots and may need surgical resection.
10441	Banti's syndrome is also referred to as Banti's disease is a persistent congestive enlargement of the spleen causing in the untimely damage of the red blood cells by the spleen. Though in the past Banti's syndrome describes patients with hypersplenism, splenomegaly and portal hypertension with no cirrhosis and with no occlusion of the portal venous system.
10442	Bantu siderosis is the overload of iron primarily seen in South African people. It involves unusual iron deposits in the liver. It is said that several African people are liable to an augmented skill to absorb iron. Initially, this was said to be a cause of ungalvanised barrels utilized to keep home-made beer that led to augmented oxidation and augmented levels of iron in the beer. Additional researches show that only those individuals that drink this beer acquires an overload in iron and the same syndrome happened in the people of African descent. Because of this, researchers were led to discover the gene polymorphism in the gene for ferroportin that prompts several individuals of African descent to overload iron.
10443	Barber's itch is a skin condition characterized by the appearance of small, white-headed pimples around one or more hair follicles, usually as a result of infections. Barber's itch is known medically as folliculitis.
10444	Bardet-Biedl syndrome is a hereditary disease mainly characterized by obesity, extra number of fingers and/or toes, hypogonadism, renal failure, and pigmentary retinopathy. The cardiovascular system is also plagued with hypertrophy of the interventricular septum, and fibrosis in the gastrointestinal tract. This disease is an autosomal recessive defect due to the malformations of the chromosome 3 and 16.
10445	Bardet-Biedl syndrome, type 1 is an unusual hereditary or genetic disorder distinguished by mental retardation, polydactyly, obesity and pigmentation of the retina and other anomalies. Bardet-Biedl syndrome, type 1 results from the deficiency in chromosome 11q13.
10446	Bare lymphocyte syndrome is a hereditary immunodeficiency disorder distinguished by T- and B-cell dysfunction and these cells are important in aiding to fight the infection. The group of genes is referred as major histocompatibility compound class II or MHC class II is not articulated. The absence of treatment can cause death in infants because of infection.
10447	Bare lymphocyte syndrome 2 or the other term for the disease is Defective expression of HLA class 2. BLSII genetic basis is not because of the gene MHC II. The result of the mutations in genes is used as the genetic basis that codes for proteins that usually control the expression if the MHC II genes.
10448	Baritosis a condition of the lung, that results from inhaling barium dust or barium that has compounds. It is a condition that is benign generally that does not result to symptoms except for irritation. On chest X-rays the particles of barium can be evident as an opaque shadow on individuals that has Baritosis. When contact to barium dust stops the abnormalities seen on chest X-rays slowly disappears.
10449	A barium enema is another name for colon examination. This procedure is done to examine the small and large intestines to diagnose if there are any perforations, thickening or other abnormalities in the colon area. This procedure is done by inserting a well-lubricated enema tube with a barium medium into the colon to detect growths, inflammations and other problems.The diagnosis shows up in an X-ray fluoroscope screen. Barium enema helps a lot in detecting colon as well as colorectal cancers. It is one of the imaging procedures used by doctors to view the development of cancers in this part of the body.
10450	Barlow's syndrome is a relatively common congenital heart disorder in which one or both of the mitral valve's leaflets abnormally protrude into the left atrium during systole. Barlow's syndrome is also known as mitral valve prolapse.
10451	Barmah forest virus is a type of virus whose carrier is a mosquitoes thriving usually in Australia.
10452	Barotitis media is a sensation of pain or discomfort in the ears during an airplane ride. It is also alternatively known as airplane ear.
10453	Barotrauma pertains to physical damage to tissues as a consequence of pressure differences between an air space inside the body and the surrounding liquid or gas. Typically, barotrauma occurs when an individual rapidly moves to and from a higher pressure environment; such as when a scuba diver rapidly ascends or descends underwater.
10454	Barrett's Esophagus is a condition marked by the changes in color and composition of the cells lining the lower esophagus due to repeated stomach acid exposure often due to long-term gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD).
10455	Barrett's syndrome, also known as "Barrett's esophagus", "CELLO" or simply "Barrett's" is a condition wherein patients experience an abnormal change in the cells of the lower part of the esophagus. Named after Dr. Norman Barrett, a British surgeon from St. Thomas Hospital that described the condition in 1957, Barrett's syndrome is believed to be caused by reflux esophagitis or damage from exposure to chronic acid. Barrett's syndrome occurs in 10% of patients seeking medical attention for heartburn. In addition, Barrett's is considered a premalignant condition, which is associated with a great risk of esophageal cancer.
10456	Barth syndrome also recognized as 3-Methylglutaconic aciduria type II and Cardiomyopathy-neutropenia syndrome it is an unusual hereditary disorder categorized by a lot of signs and symptoms and also includes motor skills being delayed, metabolism distortion, stamina deficiency, chronic fatigue, cardiomyopathy, delayed growth, and compromised immune system. The research or study of Dr. Peter Barth in the Netherlands and discovery in 1983 was the reason why the syndrome was named after him. He designed a pedigree chart where in it shows that the disease is an inborn behavior.
10457	Bartholin cyst pertains to a swelling or bulging of Bartholin's glands, usually as a result of obstruction or infection of the vaginal opening.
10458	Bartholin's abscess is caused by the build-up of pus that will eventually form a lump or swelling in one of the Bartholin's glands. This is located on either side of the vaginal opening.
10459	Bartonella infections previously known as Rochalimaea it is a genus of Gram-negative bacteria. Bartonella species may contaminate healthy people though are considered particularly essential as opportunistic pathogens. Bartonella is spread by insect vectors like fleas, ticks, sand flies and mosquitoes. It is known that eight Bartonella species or subspecies are recognized to infect humans. Bartonella rochalimae was the sixth species discovered in June 2007 that is recognized to infect humans and also the ninth species and subspecies generally recognized to infect humans.
10460	Bartter syndrome, classic form is an unusual hereditary abnormality in the thick ascending limb of the ring of Henle. It is distinguished by decreased potassium levels, low acidity of blood (alkalosis), and regular to decreased blood pressure. 2 types of Barter syndrome: Neonatal Bartter syndrome Classic Bartter syndrome It is closely related to Gitelman syndrome which is milder comparing it to both Bartter syndrome subtypes.
10461	Basal cell cancer is a frequently occurring type of skin cancer. However, it is also the most easy to treat and has the least likelihood of spreading. In general, basal cell cancer is seldom fatal; however, if untreated, it can cause widespread damage to surrounding bones and tissues.
10462	Basal cell carcinoma most usual form of skin cancer and it can be damaging and disfiguring. The danger of growing BCC is elevated for persons with a family history of the illness and with an elevated increasing contact to UV light by means of sunlight or were uncovered to carcinogenic chemicals, particularly arsenic in the past.
10463	Basal ganglia diseases or also known as basal nuclei are a collection of nuclei in the brain interrelated with the cerebral cortex, thalamus and brainstem.
10464	Basal joint arthritis pertains to an inflammatory condition affecting the joint of the wrist and the basal or carpometacarpal joint of the thumb. It is also alternatively known as thumb arthritis.
10465	Basilar artery migraines an unusual condition distinguished by headache related with a range of neurological symptoms. The state is a result of a trouble of the basilar artery that is seen in the brainstem.
10466	Bassen-Kornzweig syndrome, also known as abetalipoproteinemia, is a rare disorder that is caused by the irregular fat absorption during digestion. Patients in this condition usually lack important vitamins such as A, D, E and K.
10467	Batten disease is an unusual, deadly, autosomal recessive neurodegenerative disorder which starts in early days of a person. The disease is also referred to as Spielmeyer-Vogt-Sjogren-Batten disease it is the most usual type of a group of disorders referred to as neuronal ceroid lipofuscinosis (or NCLs). History The disease is named after the British pediatrician Frederick Batten who initially explained about the Batten disease in 1903. It is the most usual form of a collection of disorders referred to as neuronal ceroid lipofuscinosis. Though Batten disease is commonly observed as the juvenile type of NCL several physicians refer to Batten disease to all types of NCL or ceroid lipofuscinosis.
10468	BDD or body dysmorphic disorder is a condition wherein the affected individual is excessively fixated or preoccupied with real or imagined defects in his/her physical appearance.
10469	Beals Syndrome, also known as Congenital contractural arachnodactyly or CCA, is a heritable disorder involving the connective tissue of the skeleton. It is related to, but distinct from, Marfan Syndrome.
10470	Grooves across the fingernails or transverse lines are called Beau's lines. These nail abnormalities refer to shape, texture, abnormal color or thickness of the toenails or fingernails. With normal nail growth, the lines progress distally and eventually disappear at the free edge.
10471	Becker's muscular dystrophy (BMD), also known as benign pseudohypertrophic muscular dystrophy, is an X-linked inherited disorder that involves the slowly and progressive weakness of the muscle in the legs and pelvis. It is a type of dystrophinopathy, which includes a range of muscle diseaseswhere there is insufficient dystrophin produced in the muscle cells, resulting in instability in the muscle cell membrane's structure.
10472	Becker's nevus is a skin disorder that predominantly affects males. The nevus mostly first appears as an irregular pigmentation (hyperpigmentation) on the torso or upper arm (though other areas of the body can be affected), and gradually enlarges in an irregular shape, becoming thickened and often developing abnormal hair growth (hypertrichosis). It is also known as Becker's pigmented hairy nevus, Becker nevus, Becker pigmented hairy nevus, Becker melanosis and pigmented hairy epidermal nevus.
10473	Beckwith-Wiedmann syndrome (BWS) is an inherited disorder that affects a person's normal growth development.
10474	Bed-wetting is a developmental phase wherein an infant or child is unable to retain bladder control at nighttime. It is also sometimes called nocturnal enuresis or nighttime incontinence.
10475	Bedbug Bites are little red bumps on the skin caused by bites of a bedbug. A bedbug is a small, flat, reddish bug that can be found in every home.
10476	also known as pressure sores, decubitus ulcers or pressure ulcers areas of damaged skin and tissue develops when sustained pressure cuts off circulation causes the tissue of the vulnerable parts of the body to die. Prone areas include the skin on the hips, buttocks, and heels.
10477	Bee And Wasp Stings are insect stings brought about by bites of bees and wasps. Bees are fuzzy insects that feed on flowers while wasps are non-fuzzy insects closely related to bees but can also feed on animal food and other insects. The two insects may l
10478	BehÏ„et's (pronounced 'BAY-sets') disease is a disease that causes symptoms in various parts of the body. It produces a group of symptoms that affect different body systems, including gastrointestinal, musculoskeletal, and the central nervous system. These symptoms include mouth or genital ulcers, skin lesions, and inflammation of the uvea which is an area around the pupil of the eye. Common symptoms include sores found in the mouth and on the genitals. More serious symptoms can include inflammation (combined with swelling, heat, redness, and pain) in the eyes and other parts of the body.
10479	Behr's Syndrome is a rare inherited neurological condition named after Carl Behr, who first described it in 1909 as a syndrome of variable pyramidal tract signs. It is characterized by spastic paraplegia and sometimes optic atrophy. It is a hereditary familial syndrome that falls under ocular and neurologic disorders affecting both men and women. Behr's Syndrome starts in infancy with disturbed vision, disturbed coordination with ataxia, mental deficiency, and urinary sphincter weakness. Other characteristics include optic atrophy prevalent in males, scotoma, bilateral retrobulbar neuritis, nystagmus, progressive temporal nerve atrophy, increased tendon reflexes, Babinski sign, and incoordination. Its inheritance is autosomal recessive, meaning it is not linked to sex chromosomes, although heterozygotes may still manifest much attenuated symptoms.
10480	Bejel, which was previously called endemic syphilis, is a nonsexually transmitted infection caused by treponemal spirochetes closely related to Treponema pallidum, the bacterium that causes the sexually transmitted disease syphilis. Bejel, yaws, and pinta are diseases closely related to syphilis. They mainly occur in the tropics and subtropics. Unlike syphilis, they are transmitted through skin contact, mostly between children living in poor hygienic conditions. Like syphilis, these diseases start with skin sores and have a latent period that is followed by more a destructive disease. Bejel occurs mainly in the warm arid countries like the eastern Mediterranean region and West Africa. Yaws occurs in equatorial countries. Pinta is most common among the Indians of Mexico, Central America, and South America. Although the bacteria that causes bejel, Treponema pallidum endemicum, is morphologically and serologically indistinguishable from Treponema pallidum pallidum, transmission of bejel is not venereal in nature, generally resulting from mouth-to-mouth contact, skin-to-skin contact, or sharing of domestic utensils, and the courses of the two diseases are vary somewhat.
10481	Bell's Palsy is a paralysis of the facial nerve which results to an inability to control facial muscles in the affected side. There are several conditions that can cause facial paralysis: brain tumor, stroke, and Lyme disease. However, if no specific cause can be traced to the paralysis, the condition is called Bell's Palsy. It is named after the Scottish anatomist Charles Bell, who first described it. Bell's palsy is the most common acute mononeuropathy, or diseases involving only one nerve, and is the most common cause of acute facial nerve paralysis. Bell's Palsy is defined as an idiopathic unilateral facial nerve paralysis, and is usually self-limiting. Its trademark is the rapid onset of partial or complete palsy, usually in a single day.
10482	Benign astrocytoma (or astrocytoma Grade I, astrocytoma Grade II, intracranial neoplasm, intracranial tumor) is categorized into two types: Diffuse (Adults, cerebral hermisphere and brainstem) and circumscribed (Children, characteristic location/morphology). They are benign tumors that occur in the brain or spinal cord. Symptoms and severity of the astrocytoma depends on its location and size.
10483	Benign congenital hypotonia is a condition of abnormally low muscle tone, which is the amount of tension or resistance to movement in a muscle, and it often involves reduced muscle strength. It is not a specific medical disorder, but a potential manifestation of many different diseases and disorders that affect the motor nerve control of the brain or muscle strength. Recognizing benign congenital hypotonia, even in early infancy, is relatively straightforward, but diagnosing the cause underlying it can be difficult and often unsuccessful. The long-term effects of hypotonia on a child's growth and development, and later on in life, depend primarily on how severe the muscle weakness is and the nature of the cause. Other names of this condition are Hypotonia , Congenital Hypotonia, Congenital Muscle Hypotonia , Congenital Muscle Weakness, and Amyotonia Congenita.
10484	Benign essential blepharospasm (BEB) is a progressive neurological disorder characterized by involuntary muscle contractions and spasms and twitching of the eyelid muscles. It is a form of dystonia, a movement disorder where muscle contractions cause sustained eyelid closure, twitching or repetitive movements. BEB starts gradually with increased frequency of eye blinking often associated with irritation of the eye.
10485	Benign essential tremor (ET) is a movement disorder affecting the neurological system. It is characterized by involuntary fine rhythmic tremor of a body part or different parts, mostly the hands and arms (upper limbs). In many individuals affected by this, upper limb tremor may occur as an isolated finding. In others, however, tremors may gradually involve other regions of the anatomy, such as the head, voice, tongue, or palate (roof of the mouth), leading to dysarthria, or difficulty articulating speech. Less common are tremors that affect muscles of the torso or legs. It is also known as Presenile Tremor Syndrome, familial essential tremor, or hereditary benign tremor.
10486	Benign fasciculation syndrome (BFS) is a disorder affecting the neurological system and characterized by fasciculation (or twitching) of various voluntary muscles in the body. The twitching can occur in any voluntary muscle group but is most commonly found in the eyelids, arms, legs, and feet. Even the tongue may be affected by BFS. The twitching may be occasional or may go on almost continuously. Any intentional movement of the affected muscle causes the fasciculation to cease immediately, but may return once the muscle is at rest again.
10487	Benign intracranial hypertension (BIH), also known as idiopathic intracranial hypertension, is a neurological condition that consists of exaggerated brain pressure without the presence of tumors or edemas in the brain.
10488	Benign paroxysmal positional vertigo (BPPV), also known as benign paroxysmal vertigo (BPV), is a condition caused by problems in the inner ear.
10488	Benign paroxysmal positional vertigo (BPPV) is a kind of dizziness that affects one's sense of balance. It is caused by the accumulation of the particles of the inner ear that tug on to hairlike sensors that help coordinate the person in maintaining steady balance. It can be treated by clearing out the particles and position them back in their places via surgery.
10489	Benign Prostatic Hyperplasia is the non-cancerous enlargement of the prostate gland; the male organ that produces semen. Enlargement of the prostate can put pressure to the urethra causing difficulty in urination.
10490	Benign prostatic hyperplasia is also called nodular hyperplasia or benign enlargement of the prostate, benign prostatic hypertrophy. This refers to the condition wherein the prostate, usually of middle-aged men to elderly men, increase in size. The condition is one of a hyperplasia not hypertrophy as previously believed. The prostatic stromal and epithelial cells becomes hyperplastic which then results to the formation of fairly discrete and large nodules of the prostate specifically in the periurethral region. The enlarge nodules then compress the urethral canal and cause obstruction of the urethra either partially or completely, which interferes urination.
10491	Berdon's Syndrome, also known as Megacystis microcolon intestinal hypoperistalsis syndrome (MMIH), is a disorder of newborn babies, most prevalent in females, characterized by constipation and urinary retention, microcolon, giant bladder (or megacystis), hydronephrosis, intestinal hypoperistalis, and dilated small bowel. It results from a dysfunction of the smooth muscle in the abdomen and digestive system. This disorder prevents the intestines, stomach, kidneys, and bladder from functioning correctly. The pathological findings consist of a large quantity of ganglion cells in both dilated and narrow areas of the intestine. It is a familial disturbance of unknown origin. Experts disagree whether inheritance is autosomal dominant or recessive. In 1976, Berdon and company first described the condition in five female infants, two of whom were sisters. All had marked bladder dilatation and some had hydronephrosis and the external appearance of a prune belly. The infants also had microcolon and sverely dilated small intestines.
10492	Bereavement is a psychological state in which a person succumbs to depression due to a loss of a loved one. This is typical among people who have lost their loved ones due to a traumatic or sudden event.
10493	Berger's Disease (also known as primary IgA nephropathy, glomerulonephritis with IgA and IgG deposits and IgA mesangial nephropathy), has a wide pattern of distribution and is thought to be the most common form of primary glomerular disease throughout the world. Although highly prevalent, geographic variations occur, which could be due to genetic as well as enviromental influences on the patient. This is a kind of glomerulonephritis resulting from the deposition of circulating IgA antibody in the kidney tissues. Inflammation of the glomerulus (glomerulonephritis) is the result of this and may present as acute glomerulonephritis, chronic glomerulonephritis or rapidly progressive glomerulonephritis. This renal disorder more commonly affects males in the 16-40 age range.
10494	Beriberi is an ailment affecting the nervous system. It is caused by a deficiency in thiamine (vitamin B1). The etymology of the word is from a Sinhalese phrase meaning literally, "I cannot, I cannot", the word being repeated for emphasis.
10495	Berlin breakage syndrome, also known as Nijmegen breakage syndrome (NBS) and Seemanova syndrome, is a rare syndrome that is characterized by chromosomal instability, maybe as a result of a defect in the Double Holliday junction DNA repair mechanism. It is a very rare syndrome characterized mainly by a small head, lowered immunity and heightened risk of cancer. The features of this condition are basically indistinguishable from the Nigmegen Breakage syndrome. The name comes from the Dutch city Nijmegen where the condition was first discovered. Most people with NBS originate from West Slavic regions. The largest number of them is Polish.
10496	Bernard-Soulier disease is condition usually present in newborn infants, wherein the blood platelets are not able to stick to the ruptured walls of the blood vessel. This may cause problems in blood clotting and becomes a result of profuse abnormal bleeding.
10497	Berylliosis, also known as chronic beryllium disorder (CBD), is an occupational lung disease. It is a chronic allergic-type lung response and chronic lung disease that results from exposure to beryllium and its compounds. Berylliosis is incurable but its symptoms can be treated.
10498	Besnier-Boeck-Schaumann disease, also known as sarcoidosis, is a disease which can affect different organs inside the body. It causes the development of microscopic granulomas on the organs. These are masses resembling little tumors or look like grains of sugar or sand. They are made up of groups of cells from the immune system. These tiny granulomas can increase in size and number and clump together, making many large and small groups of lumps. If numerous granulomas form in an organ, they can affect how the organ functions. This can cause symptoms of Besnier-Boeck-Schaumann disease.
10499	Beta thalassemia is a hereditary blood disorder that reduces the production of hemoglobin. Hemoglobin is the substance in red blood cells that carries oxygen to cells throughout the body.
10500	Bhaskar Jagannathan syndrome is an extremely rare genetic disorder that is characterized by the clustering of features like aminoaciduria, arachnodactyly, cerebellar ataxia, congenital cataracts, and delayed developmental milestones. It is a very rare syndrome characterized primarily by long, thin fingers, cataracts that form during infancy, amino acids in the urine, incoordination and delayed development. When the affected person was first reported, the author raised the question if it could be a new cerebro-oculo-renal syndrome.
10501	A bicuspid aortic valve is a heart valve possessing two cusps that are situated between the left ventrical and the aorta. A congenitally bicuspid aortic valve has 2 working leaflets. Most people have 2 complete commissures. An approximated half of cases have a low raphe. Excluded are stenotic or partially fused valves caused by inflammatory processes, such as rheumatic fever.
10502	Bilateral renal agenesis is uncommon and is a serious condition, related to Potter's Syndrome. Bilateral renal agenesis is the lack of both kidneys at birth. It is a genetic disorder characterized by a failure of the kidneys to develop as a fetus inside the womb. This absence of kidneys results to a deficiency of amniotic fluid (or oligohydramnios) in a pregnant woman. Normally, the amniotic fluid serves as a cushion for the developing fetus. When there is not enough amount of this fluid, compression of the fetus may occur resulting in further malformations of the baby. It is the consequence of failure of differentiation of the metanephric blastema during the 25-28th day of development and both ureters and kidneys and renal arteries are missing. This disorder is more commonly found in infants born of a parent who has a kidney malformation, particularly the absence of one kidney (or unilateral renal agenesis). Studies have proven that unilateral renal agenesis and bilateral renal agenesis are genetically related to eachother. 1 out of 3 infants with this congenital defect are not born alive. Most infants that are born alive do not live beyond the coarse of four hours.
10503	Bile duct cancer is a relatively rare carcinoma affecting the biliary tract. This type of cancer, also called cholangiocarcinomas, can also occur in several areas in and around the liver.
10504	Bile reflux is a condition characterized by bile flowing upward from the small intestine into the stomach and esophagus. Bile, a digestive fluid produced by the liver, can inflame and then damage the esophageal lining and stomach.
10505	Biliary atresia is a rare condition found in newborn infants in which the common bile duct between the liver and the small intestine is blocked or missing. If it goes unrecognized, the condition leads to liver failure but not to kernicterus. This is due to the liver still able to conjugate bilirubin, and conjugated bilirubin is not able to cross the blood-brain barrier. The only effective treatments for biliary atresia are certain surgeries, or liver transplantation.
10506	Primary biliary cirrhosis is a disease in which the bile ducts in the liver are slowly and steadily destroyed. The body has an intricate system of ducts designed specifically to transport bile, which is a fluid produced in the liver. Bile is needed for the proper digestion of fats and helps rid the body of worn-out red blood cells, cholesterol and potentially toxic metals. In primary biliary cirrhosis, the destruction of bile ducts can cause dangerous substances to build up in the liver and sometimes lead to irreversible scarring of liver tissue (or cirrhosis). Many experts consider primary biliary cirrhosis an autoimmune disease in which the body turns against its own cells, although it's possible that genetic and environmental factors also play a part. Primary biliary cirrhosis develops somewhat slowly. Medication can slow the progression of the disease, especially if treatment starts early.
10507	Binge-eating disorder is characterized by a compulsion to frequently overeat. In people with binge-eating disorder, the gorging becomes a regular ritual, shrouded in shame, secrecy, and feelings of self-loathing. Bing-eating is also alternatively known as compulsive overeating.
10508	Binswanger's Disease, also known as subcortical dementia, is a rare form of dementia characterized by cerebrovascular lesions in the deep white-matter of the brain, mood changes, and loss of memory and cognition. Patients often show signs of abnormal blood pressure, blood abnormalities, stroke, disease of the large blood vessels in the neck, and disease of the heart valves. Other prominent features of the disease include urinary incontinence, clumsiness, difficulty walking, speech difficulty, slowness of conduct, and lack of facial expression. These symptoms, which tend to start after the age of 60, are not present in all patients and may sometimes appear only as a passing phase.
10509	Biotin Deficiency otherwise known as the Vitamin H deficiency is a nutritional disorder where a person is deficient in taking biotin or the water-soluble B vitamin.
10510	Biotinidase Deficiency (BIOT) is the result of the lack of an enzyme called biotinidase. Without treatment, this disorder can cause seizures, developmental delay, eczema, and hearing loss.
10511	Bipolar disorder is not just a single disorder, but a group of mood disorders defined by the presence of one or more episodes of abnormally elevated mood, clinically referred to as mania. People who experience manic episodes also commonly experience depressive episodes or symptoms, or combined episodes which present with features of both mania and depression. These episodes are normally separated by periods of normal mood, but in some patients, depression and mania may rapidly alternate with eachother, known as rapid cycling. The disorder has been subdivided into bipolar I, bipolar II and cyclothymia and is based on the type and severity of mood episodes experienced.
10512	Bird flu is a disease commonly affecting wild and domestic birds that, when transmitted to humans, can be potentially fatal.
10513	Areas of discolored skin that can be raised or flat usually present at birth or shortly after birth. Few types of birthmarks fade as the child grow while most types are permanent. Most birthmarks are harmless and may fade in time but there are also some that are associated with certain health conditions.
10514	Black Death, also known as the bubonic plague, was a pandemic disease that nearly wiped out Britain's population during the 14th century. It was thought to be caused by the bacterium Yersinia pestis, but recent studies attribute the plague to other diseases.
10515	Black Eye or the Periorbital Hematoma is the medical condition whereby there is a bruising around the eye because of an injury to the face and not directly to the eye.
10516	Black Lung or black lung disease is a common name for coal worker's pneumoconiosis, a lung disease of long-time workers in the coal industry. Cause is linked to accumulated inhalation of small amounts of coal dust. It has been termed black lung because accumulated inhalation of coal dust made the lung turned black in color instead of the regular pink color.
10517	Blackheads pertain to common skin breakouts characterized by small darkish spots on the skin, usually as a result of obstruction in the opening of the pores.
10518	Bladder calculi are small masses of minerals that form in the bladder, usually as a result of concentrated urine sitting in the bladder for extended periods. Bladder calculi are also known as bladder stones.
10519	Bladder Cancer is a type of cancer occurring in the bladder, which is the organ in the pelvic region responsible for storing urine. Bladder cancer usually starts in the cells lining the inside of the bladder.
10520	Bladder control, loss of (loss of bladder control) is defined by an inability to control urine flow or bladder function. It is also known as urinary incontinence.
10521	Bladder infection pertains to a bacterial infection affecting part or parts of the urinary tract. It is also alternatively known as urinary tract infection or UTI.
10522	Bladder inflammation is a condition characterized by inflammation of the bladder which causes chronic pain in the pelvic area.
10523	Bladder neoplasm (or bladder cancer) is a disease in which abnormal cells multiply and grow in number without control in the bladder. The bladder is a hollow, muscular organ that stores urine and is located in the pelvis. The most common type of bladder cancer starts in cells lining the inside of the bladder and is called urothelial cell or transitional cell carcinoma (UCC or TCC).
10524	Bladder Papilloma is a medical condition where there is a benign tumor that grows in the person's bladder which stores urine produced by the kidneys.
10525	Bladder stones pertain to small mineral masses that develop in the bladder, usually as a consequence of concentrated urine stagnating in the bladder. Alternative names for bladder stones are bladder calculi and urinary tract stones.
10526	Bladder, prolapse (or, more appropriately, prolapsed bladder) is a condition affecting females wherein the wall separating the bladder from the vagina weakens and stretches, allowing the bladder to bulge into the vagina. This condition is also referred to as a cystocele.
10527	Blastocystis hominis infection is an infection caused by a microscopic parasite known as B. hominis, which is commonly found in human stools.
10528	A blastoma is a type of cancer that is brough about by malignancies in precursor cells, often called blasts. It is a tumor thought to result from embryonic tissue. The term "blastoma" is generally used as part of the name for a tumor as, for examples, in glioblastoma and medulloblastoma (types of brain tumors), hepatoblastoma (a liver tumor), nephroblastoma ( Wilms tumor of the kidney), neuroblastoma (a childhood tumor of neural origin), osteoblastoma (a bone tumor) and retinoblastoma (a tumor of the retina). A blastoma is a neoplasm composed of immature and undifferentiated cells derived from the blastema of an organ or tissue.
10529	Blastomycosis is a fungal infection caused by the Blastomyces dermatitidis organism. Blastomycosis causes clinical symptoms that have similarites to histoplasmosis. The organism causing blastomycosis is endemic to portions of North America.
10530	Bleeding in the digestive tract is considered as a symptom for other diseases rather than disease itself. Common causes of bleeding are related to other conditions such as ulcer. The source of the bleeding may come from the gastrointestinal tract which includes esophagus, stomach, small intestine, large intestine or colon, rectum and anus.
10531	Bleeding varices are a result of dilated blood vessels usually located in the stomach or esophagus. This bleeding is characterized by the increased pressure in the portal vein within the gastro-esophageal tract. When not immediately diagnosed, the condition may lead to serious complications such as liver failure.
10532	Blepharitis is the inflammation of the one's eyelids. It is characterized by inflammation of the margins of the eyelid. Blepharitis generally causes redness of the eyes and itching and irritation of the eyelids in both eyes. Its appearance is often confused with conjunctivitis (pinkeye) and due to its recurring nature it is the most common cause of "recurrent conjunctivitis" in aging people. It is also often treated as 'dry eye' by patients due to the gritty and sandy sensation it may give the eyes - although lubricating drops do little to improve the condition. The two types of blepharitis are anterior blepharitis and posterior blepharitis. In the former, the blepharitis affects the front of the eyelids near the eyelashes. The causes are seborrheic dermatitis (which similar to dandruff) and occasional infection by the bacteria Staphylococcus. The latter affects the back of the eyelids, the part that has contact with the eyes. This is caused by the oil glands that are situated in this region. It is the most common type of blepharitis.
10533	Blepharophimosis is a condition where the individual has bilateral ptosis with reduced lid size. The the patient's nasal bridge is flat and there is hypoplastic orbital rim. Both the vertical and horizontal palpebral fissures (or eyelid opening) are reduced in length. Vignes probably first described this entity as a dysplasia of the eyelids. Aside from small palpebral fissures, features include epicanthus inversus (folds curving in the mediolateral direction, inferior to the inner canthus), low nasal bridge, and ptosis of the eyelids. Blepharophimosis, ptosis, and epicanthus inversus syndrome, either accompanied with premature ovarian failure (BPES type I) or without (BPES type II), is caused by mutations in the FOXL2 gene.
10534	A blepharospasm is any abnormal tic or twitch of the eyelid. It generally refers to Benign Essential Blepharospasm (BEP), a focal dystonia, in which a neurological movement disorder affects involuntary and sustained muscle contractions of the muscles around the eyes. Benign means that the condition is not life threatening and essential indicates that the cause of the condition is unknown. Fatigue, stress, or an irritant are possible contributing factors of the condition. Symptoms may sometimes last for a few days then disappear without treatment, but in most of the cases the twitching is chronic and persistent, causing lifelong challenges. The symptoms are often acute enough to result in functional blindness. The person's eyelids feel like they are clamping shut and will not open without much effort. Patients have normal eyes, but for periods of time are basically blind due to their inability to open their eyelids.
10535	Blind loop syndrome pertains to a condition wherein part of the small intestine is cut off or bypassed from the normal flow of food and digestive fluids. It is also alternatively known as stagnant loop syndrome or stasis syndrome.
10536	Blindness is the condition of lacking vision which may be caused by physiological and neurological factors. The clinical term "no light perception" often refers to total blindness. Severe visual impairment with residual vision is also interpretative to blindness. Individuals described to be having only "light perception" are those who have loss sight and can only differentiate light from dark - meaning they only have the capacity to pinpoint the direction where the light is coming from.
10537	Blood clotting is a process where the blood coagulates in order to restore blood vessels during lacerations or whatever event that caused damage. This is an important feature since through blood clotting, open wounds begin to heal by themselves and blood vessels are repaired. The ability to blood clot is due to the sufficient platelet count in the blood. Lack of platelets will result to coronary diseases and clogged arteries which can be very fatal.
10538	Blood clot in the lungs, known as pulmonary embolism, is a condition where the blood vessels in the lungs become clogged due to the formation of a blood clots or hematoma.
10539	Hematopsermia, or blood ion semen, is the bleeding of the semen during ejaculation. It can be a symptom of underlying diseases such as urinary tract infection, protatitis, sexually transmitted disease and benign prostate hypertrophy.
10540	A blood platelet disorder refers to an abnormally low number of platelets, the particles in blood that help with clotting. As a result, blood does not clot normally for the patient with a low platelet count.
10541	Bacteremia, or blood poisoning, is a medical condition in which bacteria has already contaminated the blood. This is a dangerous state since the bacteria carried by the blood can make damages to the body organs in which it is brought to.
10542	Blood pressure, high (high blood pressure) is characterized by an abnormally elevated amount of blood being pumped by the heart. Medically, high blood pressure is known as hypertension.
10543	Blood pressure, low (or low blood pressure) is the opposite of high blood pressure. Also known as hypotension, low blood pressure may not necessarily pose a health risk unless it is caused be an underlying medical condition.
10544	Bloom syndrome is a rare autosomal recessive disorder characterized by telangiectases and photosensitivity, deficiency in growth of prenatal onset, variable degrees of immunodeficiency, and increased susceptibility to neoplasms of many sites and types. The dermatologist David Bloom first described the syndrome in 1954.
10545	Blount's disease is a growth disorder involving the tibia (shin bone) that causes the lower leg to angle inward, resembling a bowleg.
10546	Blue cone monochromatism, also known as S-cone monochromacy, is a recessive disorder that is linked to the X-chromosome. The affected person's green and red cones are missing while the blue cone mechanism is dominant and functioning properly. Cases like these have been called incomplete achromatopsia, wherein color vision is only impaired and not wholly absent.
10547	Blue diaper syndrome, also known as Drummond's Syndrome or Tryptophan Malabsorption, is a rare, autosomal recessive metabolic disorder characterized in infants by bluish urine-stained diapers. It is a defect in the body's tryptophan absorption in which the urine contains abnormal indoles, giving it a blue color. It is inherited as an autosomal or most certainly recessive trait but could also be linked to the X-chromosome.
10548	Blue rubber bleb nevus syndrome (BRBNS) is a syndrome characterized by multiple cutaneous venous malformations in association with internal venous lesions, most commonly affecting the bowel. BRBNS is an important syndrome because of it has the potential to result in serious or fatal bleeding.
10549	Body dysmorphic disorder (BDD) is a psychological disorder that involves a distorted body image. It is generally diagnosed in those who are extremely critical of their self-image, despite the fact that there may be no noticeable disfigurement or defect on their physique. It is characterized by an excessive preoccupation with a real or imagined defect in one's physical appearance. People with this disorder have a distorted or exaggerated view of their physical appearance and are obsessed with actual external characteristics or perceived flaws, such as certain facial features or imperfections of their skin. They often think of themselves as disfigured or ugly. People with body dysmorphic disorder often have difficulties controlling negative thoughts concerning their appearance, even when others reassure them that they look fine and that the small or perceived flaws aren't excessive or obvious.
10550	Body lice, or rickets, are parasitic insects that thrive in the human body and eventually cause typhus. This was once a dreaded disease during World War I.
10551	Body odor and sweating pertain to excessive perspiration that produces a foul-smelling smell emanating from the body.
10552	Boil (or furuncle) is a skin disease brought about by the inflammation of hair follicles, resulting in the localized accumulation of pus and dead tissue. Individual boils can group together and form an interconnected network of boils called carbuncles. In severe cases, boils may develop to form in what is known as abscesses.
10553	Painful, pus-filled bumps that form under your skin when bacteria infect and inflame one or more of your follicles are called boils and carbuncles. They usually start as red, tender lumps that quickly fill with pus, growing larder and more painful until they rupture and drain, which mostly take about two weeks to heal although some boils disappear in a few days after they occur. They may appear anywhere on your skin, but appear mainly on your neck, face, armpits, thighs or buttocks where these hair-bearing areas are most likely to sweat or experience friction.
10554	Bone Cancer is cancer originating in the bone and believed to be one of the rare types of cancer due to few reported incidence. There are different forms of bone cancer namely: osteosarcoma, chondrosarcoma, and Ewing's sarcoma. Chondrosarcoma arise in the cartilage. Osteosarcoma occurs in growing bone tissue and Ewing's sarcoma starts in immature tissue of the bone marrow; occurring mostly in children and young individuals.
10555	Bone infection is a common term for a medical condition known as osteomyelitis, which is characterized by an infection that may begin in the bone itself or has spread to the bone from other parts of the body.
10556	Bone loss occurs when the bones become weak and brittle, usually due to low levels of minerals, phosphorus, and calcium in the body. Bone loss is closely associated with osteoporosis and is more common among women.
10557	Bone neoplasm, or bone cancer, is when new abnormal bone tissue grows due to excessive cellular division and proliferation. The bone tissue develops more rapidly than normal and continues to grow even after the stimuli that initiated it stops. This includes tumors or cancer located in bone tissue or specific bones.
10558	Bone spurs pertain to bony protrusions or projections around the edges of the bones. Also called osteophytes, bone spurs are not necessarily painful on their own but may rub against surrounding nerves and bones, thus causing pain.
10559	Borderline Personality Disorder is a devastating mental condition characterized by instability about personal perception in combination to difficulty in maintaining stable relationship usually manifested by unpredictable moods, extreme "black and white" thinking, fear of abandonment, and impulsive often self-injurious behavior. This condition results to troubles in relationships, long-range planning and self-identity.
10560	Bordetella pertussis belongs to the genus Bordetella. It is a Gram-negative, aerobic coccobacillus which the main agent that causes whooping cough.
10561	Bornholm Disease otherwise known as the Devil's grip, the Epidemic myalgia, or the Epidemic pleurodynia, the Epidemic transient diaphragmatic spasm or The Grasp of the Phantom is a medical condition that is brought about by a viral infection..
10562	Borrelia belongs to a genus of bacteria of the class spirochete. It is a disease which is zoonotic, vector-borne that is transferred mainly by ticks and some lice that depends on the species. Borrelia has 37 known species.
10563	Borreliosis, also known as Lyme disease, is an emerging infectious disease caused by bacteria from the genus Borrelia. The vector of infection is usually the bite of an infected black-legged or deer tick, but other carriers (including other ticks in the genus Ixodes) have been implicated. Borrelia burgdorferi is the leading cause of Lyme disease in the U.S. and Borrelia afzelii and Borrelia garinii are found in Europe. The disease presentation varies greatly, and may include a rash and flu-like symptoms in its initial stage, then musculoskeletal, neurologic, arthritic, psychiatric and cardiac manifestations. In a most of the cases, symptoms can be eliminated with antibiotics, especially if treatment begins early in the course of illness. Late or inadequate treatment often results to "late stage" Lyme disease that is disabling and difficult to treat. Controversy over diagnosis, testing and treatment has resulted to two different standards of care.
10564	Bothriocephalosis (also known as Diphyllobothriasis) is an infection with an intestinal parasite. The parasite is a fish tapeworm known as Diphyllobothrium latum. Human infection is caused by eating undercooked fish contaminated with the bacteria. Adult tapeworms may infect humans, felines, canids, pinnipeds, bears, and mustelids, though the accuracy of the records for some of the nonhuman species is disputed. Immature eggs are passed in the feces of the mammal host (the definitive host, where the worms reproduce).
10565	Botulism (from the Latin word, botulus, meaning "sausage") is a rare, but serious paralytic illness caused by a toxin, botulin, that is produced by the bacteria Clostridium botulinum. Botulinic toxin is one of the most powerful known toxins: about one microgram is deadly to humans. It acts by blocking nerve function and leads to respiratory and musculoskeletal paralysis to the individual.
10566	Bourneville's disease (also known as Tuberous sclerosis) is characterized by facial lesions with tuberous sclerosis, first reported as adenoma sebaceum, but now recognised as angiofibromas. It produces tuberous sclerosis occurring in association with adenoma sebaceum. It is syndrome of epilepsy, severe mental retardation associated with adenoma sebaceum (overgrowth of the sebaceous glands) of the face, hamartomatous tumours of the heart and kidney, and cerebral cortical tubers (hence the name "tuberous sclerosis"). It is heredofamilial and usually shows itself early in life. Females are more often affected by this disease than males. Incomplete forms of the syndrome can manifest. Bourneville's disease is transmitted as an autosomal dominant trait with variable expressivity.
10567	Bovine TB is a disease that primarily attacks animals that can also be transmitted to humans through aerosols and intake of raw milk. This disease is common in under developed countries.
10568	Also known as fecal incontinence is the lack of ability to control bowel movement, which causes stool to seep out from the rectum without warning. The severity can range from occasional stool leakage in combination to passing of gas to total loss of bowel control usually causing embarrassment and withdrawal from social events thinking that sudden stool leakage may occur.
10569	Bowel Obstruction is a medical condition whereby there is blockage or obstruction of the intestines that results to the abnormal bowel movements.
10570	Bowen's disease (BD) is a skin disease induced by sunlight, considered either as an early stage or intraepidermal form of squamous cell carcinoma.
10571	Boxer's ear is another term for cauliflower ear. It is a kind of hematoma that results to bulging malformations in the outer ear.
10572	Results when nerves connecting the arm and spinal cord get stretched and torn when the shoulder is pressed down forcefully while the head is pushed up away from the shoulder.
10573	Brachydactyly (BD) refers to shortening of the fingers or toes that results from the underdevelopment of the bones in the hands or feet. Brachydactyly is a medical term is literally meaning "shortness of the fingers and toes". The shortness is relative to the length of the individual's other long bones and other parts of the body. Brachydactyly is an inherited trait, usually dominat.. It most frequently occurs as an isolated dysmelia, but can also occur with other anomalies as part of many congenital syndromes. Brachydactyly is a general term that refers to disproportionately shortened fingers and toes. It can arise as an isolated finding, or be associated with a pattern of medical findings, called a syndrome. To date, many different forms of brachydactyly have been categorized. As a group, they always include extremely shortened tubular bones in the hands and feet. Some forms also lead to short stature, while others do not. The majority of types of isolated brachydactyly are passed on as autosomal dominant conditions. Radiographic studies (X-rays) can aid physicians differentiate between the different types of brachydactyly.
10574	Bradycardia is a condition wherein heart rate slows down to less than 60 beats per minute. A healthy heart normally beats between 60 and 100 beats per minute to provide sufficient oxygenated blood to the body.
10575	Bradycardia-tachycardia syndrome is a form of sick sinus syndrome characterized by slow heartbeats (bradycardia) alternating with fast heartbeats (tachycardia) as a result of some malfunction in the heart's natural pacemaker called the sinus node.
10576	In medicine (neurology), bradykinesia means "slow movement". Its etymology is brady = slow, kinesia = movement. It is a feature of several of diseases, most notably Parkinson's disease and other disorders of the basal ganglia. Rather than being a slowness in initiation (related to hypokinesia) bradykinesia describes a slowness in the execution of movement.
10577	A brain aneurysm is characterized by the bulge in a brain's artery. The most One of the most common types of brain aneurysm resembles a round berry that is attached to the artery. Such aneurisms can usually go undetected since it has no symptoms for years and as long as it does not rupture, it poses no real threats.
10577	Brain aneurysm is characterized by a bulge forming in an artery of the brain, which may be tiny or large enough to put pressure on surrounding brain tissue.
10578	Brain attack is a type of stroke that occurs from a drastic shortage of blood supply in the brain. Brain cells will commonly die in a matter of minutes. A brain attack is more commonly referred to as a stroke.
10579	Brain bleed is another name used to describe cerebral hemorrhage. Also known as stroke, brain bleed brings about serious damages such as paralysis. The effects of brain bleed may no longer be reversed or may require intensive therapy. It can also cause sudden death.
10580	Brain cavernous angioma, also referred to as cerebral cavernous malformation (CCM), cavernous haemangioma, and cavernoma, is a vascular disorder of the central nervous system that may appear either sporadically or display autosomal dominant inheritance.
10581	Brain Compression is a medical condition whereby there is an increase in the intracranial pressure.
10582	Brain Infection is a medical condition where there is an infection in the brain. It is commonly called encephalitis.
10583	Brain neoplasms are tumors of the intracranial components of the central nervous system, including the cerebral hemispheres, hypothalamus, basal ganglia, thalamus, brain stem, and cerebellum. Brain neoplasms are further divided into primary (originating from brain tissue) and secondary (i.e., metastatic) forms. Primary neoplasms are categorized into benign and malignant forms. Generally, brain tumors may also be classified by age of onset, histologic type, or presenting location in the brain.
10584	Brain Tumor is an abnormal growth of harmful cells in the brain; classified as either primary or secondary. Primary brain tumors originate in the brain can be benign or malignant. Secondary brain tumor originated in any are of the body and spread to the brain.
10585	Brainerd diarrhea is a medical condition whereby there is the presence of an acute watery diarrhea lasting for more than four weeks and may occur as as result of an outbreak or due to sporadic cases. The disease is named after a town in Minnesota where the first outbreak was first recorded.
10586	A branchial cyst is an oval cystic mass that grows between the pharynx and the sternocleidomastoid muscle in the neck. This kind of cyst is asymptomatic and is caused by the accumulation of embryonic remnants after one's development. It can also result from the failure of the second branchial cleft to obliterate. Treatment for the cyst is done by surgery.
10587	Branchio-oto-renal (BOR) syndrome is a rare autosomal dominant disorder that features ear tags just below the outer ear, branchiial fistulas, hearing loss and kidney problems.
10588	Branchiootorenal (BOR) syndrome is marked by malformations of the outer, middle, and inner ear associated with conductive, sensorineural, or mixed hearing impairment; branchial fistulae and cysts; and renal malformations, ranging from mild renal hypoplasia to bilateral renal agenesis. The presence, severity, and type of branchial arch, otologic, audiologic, and renal abnormality may be different from right side to left side in an affected individual and also among individuals in the same family. Some individuals develop to end-stage renal disease (ESRD) later in life. The name branciootorenal syndrome describes the body systems most frequently affected by this genetic disorder. The term "branchio" refers to the abnormalities of the neck found in people affected with this syndrome. Cysts (lump or swelling that can be filled with fluid) and fistulas (abnormal passage from the throat to the skin) in the neck appear frequently. The term "oto" refers to the ear disorders that are associated with the syndrome. For example, the outer ear can be abnormal in appearance. Hearing loss is also commonly associated to the syndrome. Finally, the term "renal" stands for the kidney problems commonly found in patients with this condition.
10589	Brazilian pemphigus foliaceus is a kind of cutaneous disease that is characterized by the presence of intraepidermal blisters and lesions. The disease is pandemic in Brazil. It can be treated by drugs such as penicillamine and rifampin, and can be diagnosed by means of skin biopsy.
10590	Brazilain tryponosomiasis, also known as Chagas disease, is an infectious disease that has spread in tropical countries. It usually affects children.
10591	Breakbone fever, also known as dengue fever, is an epidemic disease that causes internal hemorrhage. It has become a widespread epidemic in countries in Asia.
10592	Breast Cancer is a malignant tumor that originated from the cells of the breast and the disease, most women fear most.
10593	Breast engorgement is a condition in which the mammary glands contain too much milk that cannot be released.
10594	Breast infection is an infection affecting the breast tissue of nursing mothers characterized by swelling, redness, and pain in the breast. It is also alternatively known as mastitis.
10595	Breast pain is a common complaint of discomfort among women, affecting approximately seventy percent of females at some point in their lives. Breast pain, also known as mastalgia, is more common in the younger age bracket, particularly among pre-menopausal women, although it may afflict older females as well.
10596	Bright's disease (also known as nephritis) is a historical classification of kidney diseases that is described in modern medicine as acute or chronic nephritis. The term is no longer in use, as diseases are now classified according to their more fully understood etiologies. It is typically characterized by the presence of serum albumin (blood plasma) in the urine, and frequently accompanied by edema (tissue particulate). Many people believe that too much protein consumption can lead to Bright's disease, but this is a spurious statement and is nothing but a myth.
10597	Osteogenesis imperfecta (OI, or sometimes known as Brittle Bone Disease) is a genetic bone disorder. People with this disease are born without the proper protein (collagen), or the ability to make it, usually because of a deficiency of Type-I collagen. People with OI either have lesser collagen than normal or the quality is poorer than normal. As collagen is an important protein in bone structure, this impairment can result to those with the condition to have weak or fragile bones. As a genetic disorder, brittle bone disease is an autosomal dominant defect. Most people with OI inherit it from a parent but it can also be an individual (as in de novo or "sporadic") mutation.
10598	Broken ankle is a common situation characterized by a break in one or more bones that make up the ankle joint; including the tibia, fibula, and talus.
10599	A broken arm is a common type of injury that involves a range of fractures in the upper limbs.
10600	Broken blood vessel in eye is known in medical terms as subconjunctival hemorrhage, a condition characterized by the breaking of tiny blood vessels just beneath the clear surface of the eye called conjunctiva.
10601	A broken hand is a fracture in the bones of the hand, usually occurring along with a broken wrist.
10602	A broken hip pertains to fractures in the hip bones usually occurring in older adults aged 65 and above. A broken hip is a potentially serious injury with life-threatening complications.
10603	A broken leg is defined as a fracture or a crack in one of the leg bones. It is also alternatively known as a leg fracture.
10604	A broken nose is characterized by a break, fracture, or crack in one or more bones found in the nose. The most commonly broken bone is the bone over the nose bridge.
10605	Broken ribs pertain to a common injury wherein the bones in the rib cage breaks, fractures, or cracks.
10606	Bronchial asthma is a pulmonary inflammation wherein the air passages become narrow, causing incessant coughing, shortness of breath and wheezing. Severe asthma attacks can be fatal.
10607	Bronchiectasis is a disease that results to localized, irreversible dilatation of part of the bronchial tree. Involved bronchi are dilated, inflamed, and easily collapsible, leading to airflow obstruction and impaired clearance of secretions. Bronchiectasis is associated with a wide range of disorders, but it usually arises from necrotizing bacterial infections, such as infections caused by the Staphylococcus or Klebsiella species or Bordetella pertussis.
10608	Bronchiolitis is inflammation of the small airways of the lungs, usually occurring in young children between three to six months of age.
10609	Bronchiolitis obliterans organizing pneumonia (or BOOP) is the inflammation of the bronchioles and surrounding tissue in the lungs. BOOP is often the result of a pre-existing chronic inflammatory disease like rheumatoid arthritis. BOOP can also be a side effect of certain medicinal drugs, such as amiodarone. In cases where no cause is detected, the disease is called cryptogenic organizing pneumonia. The clinical characteristics and radiological imaging resemble infectious pneumonia. However, diagnosis is suspected after there is no response to multiple antibiotics, and blood and sputum cultures are found to be negative for organisms.
10610	Bronchitis is a condition that occurs when the inner walls lining the main airways of the lungs become inflamed; usually happening after a previous respiration infection like colds.
10611	Chronic bronchitis is the inflammation, or irritation, of the airways in the lungs. Airways are the tubes in the lungs where air passes through. They are also known as bronchial tubes. When the airways are irritated, thick mucus forms inside of them. The mucus plugs up the airways and makes it hard for the person to get air into your lungs. Symptoms of chronic bronchitis include a cough that produces mucus (sometimes called sputum), breathing difficulties, and a feeling of tightness in the chest.
10612	Bronchopulmonary dysplasia involves the abnormal development of lung tissue. It is marked by inflammation and scarring in the lungs. It occurs most often in premature babies, who are born with underdeveloped lungs. "Broncho" is the name of the airways (the bronchial tubes) through which the oxygen we breathe travels into the lungs. "Pulmonary" refers to the lungs' tiny air sacs (alveoli), where carbon dioxide and oxygen are exchanged. "Dysplasia" means abnormal changes in the organization or structure of a group of cells. The cell changes in BPD occur in the smaller airways and lung alveoli, making breathing difficult and causing problems with lung function.
10613	Bronze diabetes, or hemachromatosis, is a kind of diabetes caused by an overload of iron deposits in the body tissues. Without treatment, iron overload may cause complications and eventually lead to organ failure.
10614	Brown Syndrome is a rare eye disorder marked by defects in eye movements. This disorder may be present at birth (congenital) or may occur as the due to another underlying disorder (acquired). Muscles control eye movements and activities. Some of these muscles turn the eyeball up and down, move the eyeball from side to side, or let the eyeball to rotate slightly in its socket. The superior oblique tendon sheath of the superior oblique is the muscle that surrounds the eyeball. The symptoms of Brown Syndrome are due to abnormalities of this tendon sheath including shortening, thickening, or inflammation. This leads to the inability to move the affected eye upward.
10615	Brucellosis, also known as undulant fever, undulating fever, or Malta fever, is a zoonosis (infectious disease transmitted from animals to humans) caused by bacteria of the genus Brucella. It is generally a disease of domestic animals (goats, pigs, cattle, dogs, etc) and humans and has a worldwide distribution, mostly now in developing countries.
10616	The Brugada syndrome is a genetic disease that is marked by abnormal electrocardiogram (ECG) findings and an increased risk of sudden cardiac death. It is also known as Sudden Unexpected Death Syndrome (SUDS), and is the most commonly found cause of sudden death in young men without known underlying cardiac disease in Thailand and Laos. Although the ECG findings of Brugada syndrome were first reported among survivors of cardiac arrest in 1989, it was only in 1992 that the Brugada brothers recognised it as a distinct clinical entity, causing sudden death by resulting to ventricular fibrillation (a lethal arrhythmia) in the heart.
10617	Bruton agammaglobulinemia was the first immunodeficiency disease to be described. Colonel Ogden Bruton noted in 1952 the absence of immunoglobulins in a young male with a history of pneumonias and other bacterial sinopulmonary infections. Bruton was also the first physician to furnish specific immunotherapy for this X-linked disorder by administering intramuscular injections of immunoglobulin G (IgG). The patient improved but died of chronic pulmonary disease in his fourth decade of life. This disorder is now formally known as X-linked agammaglobulinemia (XLA), and the gene defect has been mapped to the gene that codes for Bruton tyrosine kinase (Btk) at band Xq21.3. The BTK gene is big and consists of 19 exons that encode the 659 amino acids that form the Btk cytosolic tyrosine kinase. Mutations can happen in any area of the gene. Btk is needed for the proliferation and differentiation of B lymphocytes. In the absence of working Btk, mature B cells that express surface immunoglobulin and the marker CD19 are few to absent. The lack of CD19 is readily detected with fluorocytometric assays, and this finding usually easily confirms the diagnosis of XLA in a male. As Bruton originally described, XLA shows itself as pneumonias and other bacterial sinopulmonary infections in 80% of cases. Such infections that start in male infants as maternal IgG antibodies, acquired transplacentally, are lost. Thus, XLA is most often diagnosed when unusually severe or recurrent sinopulmonary infections occur in a male infant younger than 1 year.
10618	Bruxism is the medical term used in referring to gnashing, grinding or clenching of teeth; usually affecting children and adults alike. Individuals with bruxism clench teeth at daytime usually when anxious or stressed. Long-term bruxism leads to unpleasant conditions such as jaw problems, damaged teeth, and headache.
10619	The bubonic plague, also known as bubonic fever, is the best-known variant of the deadly infectious disease caused by the enterobacteria Yersinia pestis (Pasteurella pestis). The epidemiological use of the term "plague" is currently applied to bacterial infections that cause buboes, although historically the medical use this term has been applied to pandemic infections in general.
10620	In medicine (gastroenterology and hepatology), Budd-Chiari syndrome is the clinical picture resulted from occlusion of the hepatic vein or inferior vena cava. It presents with the classical triad of abdominal pain, ascites and hepatomegaly. Some examples of occlusion include thrombosis of hepatic veins and membranous webs in the inferior vena cava. The syndrome can be acute, fulminant, chronic, or asymptomatic. It takes place in 1 out of 100,000 individuals and is more common in females. Some 10-20% also have a sort of obstruction of the portal vein.
10621	Buerger's disease, also known as thromboangiitis obliterans, is a rare disease of the arteries and veins in the arms and legs. Buerger's disease is marked by a combination of inflammation and clots in the blood vessels, which impairs blood flow. This eventually causes damage or destroys tissues and may lead to infection and gangrene. Buerger's disease typically begins in the hands and feet and may progress to affect larger areas of the limbs. Buerger's disease is uncommon in the United States, but is more common in the Middle East and Far East. Buerger's disease most commonly affects males between ages 20 and 40, though it's becoming more common in women. Basically everyone diagnosed with Buerger's disease smokes cigarettes or uses other forms of tobacco. Quitting all forms of tobacco is the only way to stop Buerger's disease from developing. For those who don't quit, amputation of all or part of a limb may ultimately be required.
10622	A bulging disk is a medical condition in which the lower back area suffers intense pain when a disk enters a crevice in the spine. Disks are the soft tissues that serve as cushions of the spine.
10623	Bulimia nervosa, more commonly known as bulimia or "mia", is an eating disorder in which the subject engages in recurrent binge eating followed by feelings of guilt, depression, and self-condemnation. The sufferer will then take part in compensatory behaviors to make up for the excessive eating, which are referred to as "purging". Purging can take the form of fasting, vomiting, using of laxatives, enemas, diuretics or other medications, or overexercising.
10624	Bullous pemphigoid (BP) is a skin disorder that is characterized by the chronic blistering of the skin. This condition ranges from the mildly itchy welts on the skin to more severe infection and blisters, and may affect a particular area of the body or spread all other, depending on the severity. This medical condition affects mostly elderly individuals but can also be seen on people of different ages.
10625	Bundle branch block pertains to an obstruction or delay in the electrical impulse pathway that causes the heart to beat.
10626	Bunions pertain to abnormal bony bumps that grow on the joint at the base of the big toe, causing the latter to enlarge.
10627	Bunyavirus is a type of virus which causes infection that results damage to the various organs of the person due to a viral infection carried by the Bunyaviridae which may be passed by mosquito bites.
10628	Burning mouth syndrome is a rather complex and highly vexing oral condition characterized by a burning sensation that occurs involving the lips, tongue, or the major areas of the whole mouth, for no apparent reason.This disorder has been associated with several numbers of other conditions such as psychological problems, menopause, disorders of the mouth, and nutritional deficiencies.
10629	Bursitis pertains to a painful inflammation of the bursae (small, fluid-filled sacs that lubricate pressure points) that often results from repetitive stress on the body's joints.
10630	Bursitis of the hip is the inflammation of the bursas in the hip bone or femur. Bursas are sacs that act as cushions to prevent friction among joints. Bursitis is commonly experienced in the shoulders as well as other joint areas.
10631	Bursitis of the knee is a condition characterized by inflammation of a bursa (tiny fluid-filled sac that reduces friction between moving parts of the knee) located near the knee joint.
10632	Calcific bursitis is the extreme inflammation of the joints due to calcification of the bones. Among the commonly affected areas are shoulders, hips, and calves. Tendons in these areas are likewise prone to damages.
10633	Byssinosis is more popularly as "brown lung", which is categorized as an occupational lung disease mainly caused by direct exposure and inhalation of cotton dust in some inadequately ventilated production site and working environment. Byssinosis is more common among factory workers employed in fabric and yarn manufacturing companies. This condition results to the narrowing of the lung's trachea and possible destruction of the lung tissue that can ultimately lead to respiratory failure.
10634	C syndrome is also known by another medical term opitz trigonocephaly syndrome, which is categorized as a very rare disorder typically transmitted as a result of a "gonadal mosaicism". This condition is present in people with different cells in its genetic makeup, usually with the number of chromosomes. The affected people are usually corn with some malformation of the head that typically displays a triangular shape which is largely due to the premature union of bones of the skull. Learning and developmental disabilities are also common in people with C syndrome.
10635	C. difficile (Clostridium difficile) is a type of bacterium that causes a widespread and serious illness. This bacterium can be found almost anywhere and can easily infect people.
10636	CADASIL, which stands for cerebral autosomal dominant arteriopathy with subcortial artifacts and leukoencephalopathy, is a type of inherited stroke disorder, usually attacks persons aged 30-50 years old. The disease is fatal, as patients usually die around 12 years after symptoms show. The disease affects the brain's small blood vessels. CADASIL also causes an abnormality in the muscle cells around the small blood vessels, called the vascular smooth muscle cells, leading to the destruction of the blood vessel cells. Patients typically have one parent who has CADASIL; as one copy of the gene is enough to cause the condition.
10637	Cafe au lait spots are generally birthmarks that are characterized by some brown cutaneous macules which are usually evident at birth and may strongly suggest possibility of Albright's syndrome or neurofibromatosis. The color of the birthmark may vary from dark to light brown with some irregular or smooth borders. Sizes of the spot can also vary and may possibly enlarge as the child grows.
10638	Calcification is a condition where there is a building up of calcium in the soft tissue causing said tissue to harden
10639	Calcinosis is a medical condition whereby there is a formation of calcium phosphates deposits in any soft tissue of the body.
10640	A term used to describe a group of disorders in which calcium deposits from in the skin, Calcinosis cutis or cutaneous calcification may result from a variety of factors. Occurring in soft tissues as a response to injury, dystrophic calcification is the most common source of this disease. Classified into 4 major types namely dystrophic, metastatic, iatrogenic and idiopathic, there are also rare types of Calcinosis cutis that have been variably classified as dystrophic or idiopathic. Such include calcinosis cutis circumscripta, calcinosis cutis universalis, tumoral calcinosis, and transplant-associated calcinosis cutis.
10641	Calciphylaxis is a highly morbid syndrome of vascular calcification and skin necrosis that is poorly understood. Mostly seen exclusively in patients with end stage renal disease, Caciphylaxis results in chronic non-healing wounds and requires parathyroidectomy and hyperbaric therapy. Considered as a rare but serious disease, calciphylaxis is a type of extraskeletal calcification that is similar to those observed among patients with hypercalcaemic states such as those with milk alkali syndrome, hyperparathyroidism, sarcoidosis and hypervitamino sis D.
10642	Calculi are stones that form in an organ or duct of the body. Stones are concretions of materials, usually mineral salts that can cause various important medical conditions.
10643	CAMFAK syndrome or CAMAK syndrome is only an acronym used to describing a rare and inherited neurological disease. It is characterized by peripheral and central demyelization of nerves, similar to that seen in Cockayne syndrome. The name "CAMFAK" is derived from the first letters of the characteristic findings of the disease: cataracts, microcephaly, failure to thrive, and kyphoscoliosis. However, the disease may also occur with or without failure to thrive and arthrogryposis. Among the first signs of the disease are low birth weight and a bird-like face. It is also typical for persons with CAMFAC to be intellectually deficit. Death may even occur within the first decade. Listed as a rare disease by the Office of Rare Disease (ORD) of the National Institutes of Health (NIH), CAMFAK syndrome only affects less than 200,000 people in the US population.
10644	Campylobacteriosis is an infection caused by the bacteria campylobacter or most commonly known as C. jejuni. Considered as among the most common human bacterial infections, it can be transmitted in several ways such as fecal-oral, person-to-person sexual contact and ingestion of contaminated food or water. When infected with the bacteria, an inflammatory and sometimes bloody diarrhea or dysentery syndrome may be experienced. It may include cramps, fever and pain. Campyolabacteriosis is usually self-limiting.
10645	Campylobacteriosis is an intestinal infection caused by bacteria called Campylobacter; commonly found in the stool of infected people and animals, processed food products contaminated in the process and preparation, poorly cooked chicken and other contaminated fruits that have not been hygienically prepared.
10646	Canavan Disease (also know as ACY2 deficiency) is a rare genetic defect that characterizes a spongy deterioration of the brain and spinal cord. The symptoms that indicate the spread of the disease develop at infancy, usually beginning with progressive mental decline and rapid loss of head control, balance and muscle tone. Affected infants have an abnormally large head caused by swelling. This disease is caused by an abnormality found in the ASPA gene that stops the cells from producing aspartocytase, an enzyme important in brain development.
10647	Canavan disease is an autosomal recessive disorder that is the most common cerebral degenerative disease of infancy. The disease causes progressive damage to the brain's nerve cells. It is also a gene-linked, neurological birth disorder, wherein the white matter of the brain disintegrate into spongy tissue puzzled with microscopic fluid-filled spaces. The disease belongs to a group of genetic disorders called leukodystrophies, which are characterized by the degeneration of myelin. Myelin is an electrically insulating dielectric covering the phospholipids layer of neuron insulating the axon. Canavan disease hinders the body's normal production of myelin. Called the central nervous system's "white matter," this fatty membrane ensures that nerve impulses are properly transmitted.
10648	Cancer is a group of diseases in which cells are hostile, invasive, and sometimes metastatic. These three are considered malignant properties of cancers that differentiate them from benign tumors. Although some benign tumor types are capable of being malignant, they are usually self-limited in their growth and don't invade or metastasize. People from all ages, even fetuses, may be affected with cancer but age is a factor that can raise the risks for more common varieties. About 13% of all deaths are caused by cancer and according to the American Cancer Society, 7.6 million people died from cancer in 2007 across the world. Even plants and animals may be affected by cancer. Abnormalities in the genetic material of the transformed cells practically cause all cancers. Carcinogens such as tobacco smoke, chemicals, radiation or infectious agents may have caused said abnormalities. Some however, may be randomly acquired through errors in DNA replication or inherited. DNA methylation and microRNAs are new aspect of the genetics of cancer pathogenesis that are gaining importance. The tissues from which the cancerous cells originate are used as bases in classifying cancer. There are also two general classes of genes affected by cancer anmely the oncogenes and tumor suppressor genes.
10649	Cancer in children is a group of cancers that usually occur in children below 5 years of age. These cancers can be extremely fatal when not treated, just like the cancers that develop in adults. The most common cancers that affect children are blood-related, but other kinds include the brain and kidneys. These cancers are not caused by genetic disorders but rather of enzymatic or environmental reasons.
10650	Commonly called yeast infection or thrush, candidiasis is a fungal infection (mycosis) of any of the Candida species. The most common Candida specie is Candida albicans. Candidiasis includes infections that range from superficial, such as oral thrush and vaginitis, to systemic and potentially life-threatening diseases. The latter belongs to a category called candidemia are usually confined to severely immunocompromised persons. These include persons with cancer, transplant, and AIDS patients.
10651	Canine distempers are a highly contagious disease that primarily affects dogs and other types of carnivores. This medical condition is still considered reasonably common despite decades of vaccinations. The severity of this disease can vary from mild to seriously fatal.
10652	Canker Sores are small, superficial and painful lesions, which usually develop on the soft tissues of the mouth (under the tongue, inside cheeks or lips, and at the base of the gums). Canker sores are presented as either round or oval with a white border and white or yellow center.
10653	Characterized by leakage of red blood cells from small, superficial blood vessels that result in pinpoint-like hemorrhages (petechiae) is called capillaritis. Usually a life-long condition, flaring intermittently, it is frequently found in patients with long periods of extended standing related to their occupations.
10654	It is also referred to as Caplan's disease it is a combined disease of rheumatoid arthritis and pneumoconiosis which shows as intrapulmonary nodules that appear homogenous and visible with the use of chest X-ray. Patients suffering from this disease have a scar and swelled lungs and they might have also been exposed to coal dust.
10655	It is a medical condition that is an unusual genetic metabolic disorder where in the where malfunctioning carbohydrate compounds are connected to glycoproteins and results to damaged glycoprotein function. Carbohydrate deficient glycoprotein syndrome involves a defect in the phosphomannomutase enzyme and involves most body systems in particular the nervous system and the function of the liver.
10656	Carbon monoxide poisoning is a condition resulting from exposure to a colorless, odorless, tasteless, yet potentially fatal gas known as carbon monixde.
10657	Carcinoid syndrome points to the collection of symptoms that happen next to carcinoid tumors. Carcinoid tumors happen together along with gastrointestinal tract (GI) that are distinct, colored yellow and well-circumscribed tumors. The tumors usually affect the ileum, appendix and rectum and it is usually distinctive and endocrine in nature. The tumors produce hormones into the blood stream that go through to the end organs and operates then by proper receptors. Though it fairly unusual, out of 15 cases per 1,000,000 population carcinoid tumors report for 75% of GI endocrine tumors.
10658	Carcinoid tumors pertain to rare growths of potentially cancerous masses in several areas of the body. They most commonly occur in the lungs and in the gastrointestinal tract, including the stomach, appendix, small intestine, rectum, and colon.
10659	Carcinoma, squamous cell is a type of cancer of the carcinoma that may happen in several diverse organs which includes the skin, mouth, lips, esophagus, urinary bladder, prostrate, lungs and cervix. It is a nasty squamous epithelium, epithelium that presents differentiation in squamous cell.
10660	Cardiac amyloidosis is a medical condition that is a type of amyloidosis the reason of which is because of the deposits of an amyloid protein in the heart tissue that results to the reduced function of the heart.
10661	Cardiac arrest is also recognized as cardiorespiratory arrest, cardiopulmonary arrest or circulatory arrest and it is the sudden stop of normal flow of the blood because of the failure of the heart to contract efficiently during systole. Cardiac arrest varies from a heart attack or myocardial infarction where in the flow of blood to the still-beating heart is sporadic. The prevention of oxygen to be supplied to all parts of the body is referred to as "Arrested" blood circulation.
10662	Cardiac syndrome X is a kind of chest pain associated with reduced blood flow to the heart but the coronary arteries remain normal. This disorder is found to be an effect of other vasospastic problems such as Raynaud's phenomenon and migraine.
10663	Cardiac tamponade, is also known by another medical term as pericardial tamponade, which is characterized as an emergency condition where fluid accumulates in the sac that encloses the heart. The accumulation of the fluid can significantly elevate the heart's pressure and can ultimately lead to shock and possible death if without any medical intervention.
10664	Cardiofaciocutaneous syndrome is a congenital anomaly characterized by mental retardation and marked with heart defects, ectodermal abnormalities as well as growth failure. This medical condition was first discovered in 1986, and to date, there are less than 300 recorded cases of this congenital disorder all over the world, and known to affect both sexes across all ethnic background.
10665	Cardiomyopathy is the deterioration of the function of the myocardium (i.e., the actual heart muscle) for any reason.
10666	Cardiospasm is the muscular failure among the esophagus and the stomach to open where in obstructing the passage of food into the stomach which causes the food to go into the esophagus. Cardiospasm is also known as achalasia and other terms for this condition are as follows achalasia cardiae, cardiospasm, dyssynergia esophagus, and esophageal aperistalsis.
10667	Carney complex (CNC) is characterized as a lentiginosis syndrome and familial multiple neoplasma. Patients with this medical condition are observed to have spotty skin pigmentation, multiple myxomas and tumors of the thyroid and endocrine glands.
10668	Carnitine transporter deficiency is a hereditary carnitine deficiency, which is a result of defective proteins. These proteins are called carnitine transporters. These transporters are responsible for carrying carnitine to wherever it's needed in the body, and prevents it from being excreted. With the deficiency, carnitine is released through urine. Illness or fasting may trigger severe attack.
10669	Carnitine-acylcarnitine translocase deficiency is an uncommon fatty-acid oxidation disorder, which stops the body from transforming essential fatty acids to energy. Carnitine is generally acquired through one's diet, and is utilized by body cells in processing fats and producing energy. Individuals with this kind of deficiency have defective enzyme, preventing the transportation of fatty acids into the mitochondria's innermost part for processing.
10670	Caroli disease is categorized as an uncommon congenital disease that involves the cystic dilatation of the liver's intrahepatic bile ducts. It has two types, known as Simple Caroli disease and Complex Caroli disease. The first type is characterized by ectasia or dilatation of bile ducts, while the latter includes the presence of portal hypertension and hepatic fibrosis besides ectasia.
10671	Carotenemia is a condition of excess beta-carotene in one's blood. It's common and generally harmless in infants, usually appearing when they start eating solids. Ingestion of too much beta-carotene containing foods, deposits the carotene in one's skin adding yellow color to it. While the condition is not dangerous, it may lead to mistaken analysis of jaundice.
10672	Carotid artery dissection involves a tear in an inner artery lining, known as carotid artery. Carotid arteries supply blood to the brain, and are located in the neck's front portion. The condition may be critical, and needs immediate medical attention.
10673	Carpal tunnel syndrome is a condition wherein the carpal tunnel's median nerve is pinched or entrapped due to swelling tendons or nerve or both. Carpal tunnel safeguards the major nerve to the hand, as well as the nine tendons responsible for bending the fingers. When pressure is placed on this major nerve, it causes pain, muscle weakness, and paresthesias in the hand and forearm.
10674	Carpenter syndrome is classified as a very rare or uncommon genetic disorder, distinguished through premature closure of skull bones, growth retardation, heart defects, craniofacial abnormalities, and other health disorders. It is usually manifests at/or shortly following birth.
10675	Castleman's disease is considered an uncommon illness affecting the lymph nodes and the body's immune-cell structures. The disease is categorized as lymphoproliferative disorder; meaning it involves overgrowth or proliferation of the lymphatic cells. While it's similar to lymphatic system cancers in many ways, Castleman's disease is non-cancerous. It has two types: Unicentric that involves one site of tissue growths, and Multicentric involving multiple sites of growths.
10676	Cat Eye syndrome is a very uncommon chromosomal disorder relating to chromosome 22 genetic abnormalities. The syndrome affects the eyes' appearance, and can be apparent at birth. Its name is derived from the distinctive eye abnormality present in affected individuals. This characteristic consists of the partial lack of coloboma or ocular tissue, which often affects both eyes.
10677	Cat-scratch disease is a communicable disease transmitted through the bacteria in a cat's saliva. The disease can be caught from a cat's bite or scratch, and may be passed on from cat to human. The disease isn't severe in healthy people, but it may be a problem for those who have a weak immune system.
10678	Catatonic schizophrenia is a subtype of chronic mental illness known as schizophrenia, which is characterized by altered perception of reality, behavior, and thinking. Patients with catatonic schizophrenia are typically extremely inactive or display minimal movements that seem disconnected from their surroundings. These episodes, known as catatonic episodes, may last for mere minutes or as long as a few hours.
10679	CATCH 22 syndrome comprises an extensive range of developmental defects linked to microdeletions of chromosomal area 22q11.2. More known examples of CATCH 22 phenotype are Velo-Cardio-Facial syndrome, DiGeorge syndrome, and Opitz GBBB syndrome. The acronym CATCH 22 summarizes the major medical features of the 22q11.2 deletions.
10680	Catel Manzke syndrome is an uncommon genetic disorder combining glossoptosis, cleft palate, and micrognathia with an abnormality of the index fingers. Apart from the major features, there are also several related malformations described, particularly growth retardation and cardiac defect.
10681	Caudal regression syndrome is an uncommon disorder wherein the fetal spine's bottom portion does not properly develop. As a result, abnormalities that can be mild or severe occur. The syndrome can lead to various problems, varying from partial nonappearance of the spine's tailbone areas, to severe cases entailing significant malformation of pelvis, lower vertebrate, and spine.
10682	Causalgia is defined as a chronic pain disease that typically affects the leg or arm. It is characterized by reduced motion range of the hand and shoulder of an affected arm. In rare cases, it can involve other parts of the body.
10683	Cavernous hemangioma is a harmless propagation of the blood vessels, wherein there is a formation of a tumor-like mass of blood vessels in the internal organs or the skin. This vascular tumor is composed of huge quantity of blood. The usual "superficial" lesions have dark to bright red color; lesions that are deep are blue in color. This condition extends more intensely than capillary hemangioma, so spontaneous regression is less likely.
10684	Cavernous sinus thrombosis is a condition wherein there is formation of blood clot made up of fibrin and platelets in the brain's cavernous sinus. Cavernous sinus is found at the brain's base and contains several nerves, other structures, and a vein. This vein transports deoxygenated blood from face and brain then back to the heart. Associated conditions are craniocerebral trauma, thrombophilia, and infections of paranasal sinuses and contiguous structures.
10685	Some people are born with defects on their lower lip, and this may occur on the right or left side of the lip. This disease is Cayler Syndrome, also known as asymmetric crying facies. It is a disease wherein a congenital heart defect constricts the muscle movement of the lower lip. The controlled muscle movement is due to an underdeveloped muscle in the lip, or a complete absence of the muscle. Being congenital in nature, those afflicted are born with the disease, and is noticed in the infant when they cry or smile.
10686	When your child is born with a disease, knowledge about it will help you and your family cope with and learn how to raise the child as they need to. CDG, or congenital disorders of glycosylation, is a disease that affects the body's metabolic systems. It is also known by the name carbohydrate-deficient glycosylation syndrome. The central and peripheral nervous system are the most affected functions of those who are diagnosed with CDG syndrome.
10687	Celiac disease pertains to a digestive disorder set off by consumption of gluten, a type of protein that can be found in pasta, bread, pizza crust, cookies, and other food products that contain barley, wheat or rye.
10688	Genetics plays a significant role when it comes to the diseases we get or do not get in our lifetime. Among those that are determined by genetics, is celiac sprue, which affects the autoimmunity of the small bowel. Research has shown that an estimated 1% of patients come from Indo-European origins, although the disease still remains to be largely underdiagnosed.
10689	Cellulite is unsightly fat visible on the skin. Cellulite is dimpled in appearance and can be typically seen on the hips, thighs, and buttocks of women.
10690	Cenani Lenz syndactylism is a hereditary malformation syndrome that involves both the lower and upper extremity. It's an uncommon birth defect that's characterized by a variety of bone abnormalities. The syndrome was named after two medical geneticists; Turkish geneticist Asim Cenani, and German geneticist Widukind Lenz.
10691	Central diabetes insipidus is one of the two types of diabetes. The disease causes those afflicted to have extremely diluted urine, a result of a hormone deficiency vasopressin, an antidiuretic hormone. The condition disables the function of the kidneys to produce concentrated urine. Because of the excessive excretion of urine, people with central diabetes insipidus also show symptoms of extreme thirst for cold water. Dehydration is also a common symptom, since the body is unable to store water. The urine of patients also do not contain any glucose. In rare cases, central diabetes insipidus also causes blurred vision. Adults should be able to drink enough water to make up for the loss during extreme urination in order to keep healthy and live with the disease. Children who suffer from central diabetes insipidus show more drastic symptoms, such as diarrhea, fever, and vomiting. The disease also affects the child's growth, appetite, and eating functions. The disease may also occur gestationally, when women get pregnant but it disappears after labor. For one to be diagnosed with central diabetes insipidus, a number of tests are done concerning the blood glucose, calcium, and bicarbonate levels are conducted. Urinalysis is also conducted to determine the levels of electrolytes and urine osmolality, in which a person positive with central diabetes insipidus would have low results for both. An important tool in determining the cause of central diabetes insipidus is the fluid deprivation test. The disease can be caused by one of three factors: excessive liquid consumption, a disability in the production of the antidiuretic hormone, or if the cause lies in the kidney's reaction to the antidiuretic hormone. The test also makes use of a desmopressin stimulation to help in determining the main cause for the patient's condition. Should the patient be suspected of having central diabetes insipidus, further hormone testing of the pituitary is done. A magnetic resonance imagine, or MRI, is also conducted to determine what process is influencing the functions of the pituitary. Patients, including those with gestational cases, who are tested positive of central diabetes insipidus are treated with desmopressin. Those who develop gestational diabetes may also acquire the disease in their other pregnancies. For those who are diagnosed with nephrogenic diabetes insipidus, the desmopressin treatment will not be effective.
10692	Central diabetes insipidus is the body's deficiency of the antidiuretic hormone, causing too much production of extremely dilute urine. It is uncommon, and involves intense thirst and over urination. The condition indicates the kidney's inability to balance urine concentration.
10693	Central pontine myelinolysis is a neurological condition caused by damages incurred by the pons, the myelin sheath wherein the nerve cells in the brainstem are located.
10694	Central serous chorioretinopathy is a condition of the eye wherein the central macula leaks fluid from the choriocapillaris, resulting in blurry vision. The word serous means serum, which is thin and watery-like in texture. The blurry vision is called metamorphopsia. Sometimes the patients see gray or blind spots, as well as occurring photopsia, or flashes of light.
10695	Central sleep apnea is a condition characterized by breathing disturbances in sleep, often as a result of respirator weakness.
10696	Centronuclear myopathy belongs to a group of rare diseases called congenital myopathies. Congenital myopathies are conditions wherein the cell's nuclei is located within the skeletal muscle cells, an abnormal condition. Normally, the nuclei would be positioned in the periphery of the cell, but with centronuclear myopathy the nuclei is in the center, hence the name.
10697	Ceramidase deficiency, also known as Farber's Disease, is a group of genetically predisposed metabolic diseases named lipid storage diseases. The diseases characterize a condition wherein excessive amounts of lipids, such as fatty acids, oils, and other related substances, accumulate to harmful levels in the central nervous system, tissues, and joints. This may also affect the liver, heart, and kidneys. Ceramidase deficiency occurs in children when both parents have the protein-regulating gene sphingomyelin. Their children have a 25% chance of acquiring the disease, and a 50% chance of bearing the gene.
10698	Ceramide trihexosidosis is also known as Fabry's disease, and is a condition wherein an enzyme deficiency causes a fat storage disorder. This is because the enzyme deficiency affects the lipid biodegradation functions of the body.
10699	Ceraunophobia, known as the fear of lighting and thunder, is also known as astraphobia, tonitrophobia, and brontophobia. This specific type of phobia causes people distress and extreme upset when they encounter thunder or lightning.
10700	Cercarial dermatitis is a skin condition characterized by an itchy rash caused by certain parasites. It is also commonly referred to as "swimmer' itch".
10701	Cerebellar hypoplasia is a condition which affects the development of the cerebellum. The developmental problem actually results in an underdeveloped cerebellum, smaller than usual in size. Cerebellar hypoplasia may result because of genetics, or can also occur sporadically. The condition is associated with other diseases such as the Walker-Warborg syndrome, Dandy Walker Syndrome, and the Werdnig-Hoffman Syndrome.
10702	Cerebral vermis agenesis refers to the partial or complete malfunction of the brain's cerebellum due to the agenesis of the vermis. It is a congenital disorder.
10703	Cerebral or brain abscess is a mass of materials such as pus or immune cells that grow inside the brain due to fungal or bacterial infections.
10704	Cerebral amyloid angiopathy is a condition that affects the small blood vessels of the brain, wherein the amyloid protein associated with the Alzheimer's disease is deposited in the vessel walls. This may result in brain diseases such as dementia, brain hemorrhage, and stroke. Patients with cerebral amyloid angiopathy are usually older than 65 years old, although it may also occur in those who are around 45 years of age. The disease prevalence increases with age, and equally affects both men and women. Cerebral amyloid angiopathy is responsible for 5-20% of brain hemorrhage occurrences, and 30% of lobar hemorrhage.
10705	A cerebral aneurism occurs when the cerebral artery's wall weakens, causing the blood vessel to balloon abnormally and be filled with blood. This aneurism may put pressure on the tissue surrounding the brain, or the nearby nerves; it can also result in a rupture, called a brain hemorrhage. These can occur anywhere in the brain, but usually in the under part of the brain by the skull's base known as the Circle of Willis. When cerebral aneurisms are very small, they can go on without causing any problems.
10706	Cerebral cavernous malformation, sometimes known as cavernous angioma, is a disease that affects the central nervous system. The disease may occur sporadically or may be inherited. When one has the disease, there are groups of abnormal blood vessels located in the brain and spinal cord, although in rare cases they are also located in other parts of the body. A cerebral cavernous malformation resembles a raspberry, although it varies in size. The small bubbles are filled with blood, and a special layer of cells called endothelium lines the bubbles.
10707	Cerebral edema is an inflammation of the brain tissue due to pressure brought about by massive fluids that are collected within the brain. This condition can cause neurological problems and eventual death.
10708	Cerebral gigantism, also known as Sotos syndrome, is a rare hereditary disease characterized by excessive abnormal growth during birth, and extreme physical growth during early childhood years. The growth is purely physical, as there is no increased serum growth hormone levels. Sometimes, the condition may be accompanied by various levels of mental retardation, hypotonia, hindered motor, social, and cognitive development, and speech problems. Children born with cerebral gigantism are larger than normal during birth, and also possess a condition called macrocrania, where their heads are larger than normal. The disease may occur sporadically, or it can also occur in familial cases.
10709	Cerebral hypoxia occurs when the brain cannot get sufficient oxygen supply. Four classifications divide the other forms of cerebral hypoxia. A milder form of the disease is known as diffuse cerebral hypoxia, wherein brain impairment occurs due to low blood oxygen levels. Focal cerebral ischema is a localized reduction in the transport of oxygen from the blood to the brain. Mild strokes may occur, and the neuron damage in this case is irreversible. Cerebral infarction occurs when the oxygen flow from blood to a part of the brain is completely stopped, causing significant and irreversible brain damage. Global cerebral ischema is the last category, wherein the blood completely stops flowing to the brain.
10710	Cerebral palsy is a group of diseases that are non-progressive and non-contagious. The word cerebral refers to the cerebrum, and palsy means disorder of movement. Cerebral palsy is characterized by damaged motor control centers in the brains of young children. The brain damage that occurs does not worsen over time, although orthopedic difficulties may accompany the condition. There are 4 common classifications of cerebral palsy according to the damaged area of the brain. These are spastic, athetoid/dyskinetic, ataxic, and mixed. Spastic cerebral palsy is the most common type, and this type of cerebral palsy affects the motor cortex, corticospinal tract, or pyramidal tract, which leads to neuromuscular conditions. Patients with this type of CP also are hypertonic. Athetoid or dyskinetic type of CP have mixed muscle tone, and have either hypertonia or hypotonia. Ataxia, the least most common type of cerebral palsy, is characterized by tremors, hypotonia, and possibly some difficulties with motor skills.
10711	Cerebral thrombosis is defined as blood clot that takes place in the cerebral vessel. It is more commonly known as stroke or Transient Ischemic Attack or TIA. TIA is a "mini" or "warning" stroke, but doesn't have lasting damage. There are strokes that damage part of one's brain, and some have permanent injury. TIA is important in foreseeing if a "stroke" will happen and the chance to prevent it. They may occur several days, some weeks, or even a few months prior to a major cerebral thrombosis attack. In approximately half of the cases, stroke happens within a year from TIA.
10712	Cerebrocostomandibular syndrome is a rare autosomal recessive disorder that is exhibited by a small jaw, palate deformities, improper positioning of the tongue and misplaced rib development. Some patients with this disorder soon develop mental retardation.
10713	Cerebrohepatorenal syndrome is a rare genetic disease characterized by the lack of peroxisomes, the cell structures that remove toxic substances from the body. Peroxisomes are found in the kidneys, liver and brain.
10714	Cerebrotendinous Xanthomatosis (CTX) is a rare metabolic disease that affects the body's lipid storage system.
10715	Ceroid lipofuscinosis, neuronal is also known as Batten Disease and Neuronal Ceroid Lipofuscinosis. The name constitutes a family of 8 or more different neurodegenerative disorders which occur when lipopigments called lipofuscin, accumulate in the body's tissues. Fats and proteins make up the lipopigments, and they can accumulate in cells of body parts including the brain, eyes, muscle, and skin. The disease is quite rare, although they can occur in more than one member in a family if they possess the defective gene. The disorder is autosomal recessive in nature; meaning that if a child acquires the disease, both his parents have the defective gene. Parents who carry one defective gene result in each child having a one in four chance of inheriting the disease. Each of them also has a one in two chance of inheriting a copy of the gene. In adults, the CLN may be autosomal recessive or autosomal dominant form of the disease.
10716	Cerumen impaction pertains to an abnormal accumulation of earwax in the external ear canal. The earwax becomes too tightly packed to the point of causing an obstruction in the said canal.
10717	Cervical cancer is a type of cancer that affects the cervix, located in the lower part of the uterus. Cervical cancer falls under two classifications: squamous cell carcinoma, and adenocarcinoma. The cancers are classified according to how they look under a microscope, and squamous cell carcinoma occurs in 80-90% of cases.
10718	Cervical dystonia pertains to a painful condition characterized by involuntary contraction of neck muscles, which cause the head to twist or turn to one side. Cervical dystonia is also referred to as torticollis or spasmodic torticollis.
10719	Cervical osteoarthritis also known as cervical spondylosis is the deterioration of the bones and cartilage of the backbone and neck. The condition sometimes leads to the formation of bone spurs or irregular bony outgrowths.
10720	It is an inflammation of the cervix.
10721	Cestodes are parasitic internal parasites commonly known as tapeworms. They thrive on the feces of their host, and are a potential cause of gastrointestinal diseases. Cestodes also thrive in the gastrointestinal tract where they lay eggs.
10722	Chagas disease is a form of tropical parasitic disease, affecting persons in the Americas but most commonly in South America. The infectious agent in the disease is the Trypanosoma cruzi, which latch on to humans through the assassin bugs of the Triatominae. The disease is transmitted to humans through contamination in food, blood transfusion, and fetal transmission.
10723	A chalazion is a cyst that grows in the eyelid caused by the inflammation of the meibomian gland. These cysts vary in styes and are usually painless until they start to swell. They eventually heal and disappear on their own after a few days or weeks, but oftentimes it needs treatment in order to heal faster.
10724	Chancroid is a kind of sexually transmitted disease caused by bacteria. This STD is common in hot, tropical countries, and is characterized by open, painful sores in the genital area. When left untreated chancroid may give way to ulcers that may persist in the affected area for up to several months.
10725	Chandler's Syndrome (CS) is an eye disease which eats up the lining of cell inside the cornea causing the iris to dry up. This rare eye disorder is characterized by the swelling of the cornea as well as glaucoma. One of the three syndromes that dwell on the eyes, CS is more common to females than with males. At most times CS only affects one eye, but when left unattended, the other eye may be infected as well. Because of the glaucoma and leaking of fluids throughout the cell membrane would cause extreme pain and impaired vision.
10726	Chaotic Atrial Tachycardia, also known as Multifocal Atrial Tachycaridia is a disorder characterized by abnormal rapid heart rate. The fast heart rate occurs when too much electrical impulses flow to the different chambers of the heart, making it function faster than normal. It is as well linked to other heart disorders such as atrial fibrillation. This heart disorder produces a rhythm of varying P-wave morphology at irregular PP intervals. The heart rate is usually between 100 and 140 beats per minute, but in a Chronic Atrial Tachycardia, multiple locations within the atria rev up and initiate electrical impulses. These impulses are sent to the ventricles, leading to a faster heart rate from 100 to 250 beats per minute. This very fast rate then increases the heart's workload. Chronic Atrial Tachycardia is common in elderly patients especially those with pre-existing health problems and COPD.
10727	Lips that appear scaly, dry and may have one or more small cracks (fissures) are called chapped lips (cheilitis). They are often painful and there may or may not be swelling and redness.
10728	Charcot's Disease, or more commonly known as Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, is a neurodegenerative disease caused by the gradual death of motor neurons which control muscle movement. This illness usually causes muscle weakness and progressive atrophy, making the person lose his ablity to make voluntary movements in all parts of his body except for his eyes. Eventually the disease can lead to dementia and death.
10729	The Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease is an inherited heterogeneous disease characterized by the death of muscle tissue and loss of touch sensation. It usually attacks the legs and feet but also triggers the arms and hands as the disease progresses. It is also known as Peroneal Muscular Atrophy or Hereditary Motor and Sensory Neuropathy, and is incurable at present. The disease is named after scientists who took the effort to do research on it, Jean-Martin Charcot and his student Pierre Marie, as well as Howard Henry Tooth.
10730	CHARGE syndrome is a genetic disorder which consists of a set of congenital defects on newborn babies. It was first discovered in 1979 and the acronym was coined in 1981. The acronym CHARGE stands for Coloboma of the eye, Heart defects, Atresia of the nasal choanae, Retardation of growth, Genital abnormalities and Ear problems.
10731	Chediak-Higashi syndrome is an inherited disease that attacks the nervous and immune systems which results to pale-colored eyes, hair and skin.
10732	A chemodectoma is a benign, non-chromaffin tumor that dwells in the carotid artery. Sometimes called as the non-chromaffin paraganglioma, chemodoctoma is usually found in the head and neck area.
10733	Chemophobia literally means a fear of chemicals. It is a fully-developed psychological fear of chemical substances due to pre-existing beliefs and hearsays about the negative effects of chemicals to one's body. However, some experts do not consider chemophobia as a psychological condition, but rather a term marketing analysts and advertisers coined in order to widen the market of the products they are selling.
10734	The Chen Kung Ho Kaufman McAlister Syndrome is a congenital defect where children are born with micrognathia, Wormian bones, cleft palate, congenital heart disease, dislocated hips, preaxial polydactyly of the feet, bowed fibulae, missing tibia and abormal skin patterns. It is a rare disease with an unknown etiology. The syndrome was first described in 1975 by Chen-Kung Ho, RL Kaufman and WH McAlister at the Washington University.
10735	A small non-cancerous, red-purple bump on the skin that is typically seen in older adults is called a cherry hemangioma, which is formed from an overgrowth of small veins.
10736	Cherubism is a genetic defect which consists of the protruding bone tissue at the lower part of the face, particularly at the jaws. At the beginning of one's childhood, his upper and lower jaw grow at an abnormal rate and will soon be replaced by cyst-like bones. Because of this sudden enlargement of the jaws, the person's cheeks become swollen and rounded just like that of a cherubim, and will soon face problems with tooth growth. The condition varies among people; some cases of cherubism are quite mild and in fact unnoticeable, but in others the defect is so severe they even encounter difficulties in chewing, talking and seeing. However, these growths become replaced by normal bones as the children enter adulthood, and they will soon have a normal appearance as they reach maturity.
10737	It is a sudden feeling of pain in the chest.
10738	Chest wall pain is also referred to as costosternal syndrome, costosternal chondrodynia, or costochondritis. The condition is the inflammation of a cartilage that connects a rib to the breastbone.
10739	Chiari malformation is the displacement of brain tissue into the spinal canal.
10740	Chickenpox is a classic infectious disease common among children. It is a rarely fatal illness that is characterized by red spots on the different parts of the body and become itchy over time. Persons that acquire chickenpox as well obtain lifelong immunity from the disease once it heals after a few weeks.
10741	Chikungunya is a rare viral fever spread by mosquitoes that contain an alphavirus. Its name comes from a Makonde word that literally means 'that which bends up', as the arthritic symptoms of the disease result to a stooped posture on the patient. It was first discovered in 1955 after 1952 outbreak along the Makonde Plateau, which is located in between Tanganyika and Mozambique.
10742	Childhood asthma is a kind of asthma present in children. It features the same attributes to that of adult asthma, except that it occurs more frequent due to the child's activities. Childhood asthma is present in children with a weak heart or lungs.
10743	Childhood disintegrative disorder or CDD is a condition that consists of a child's delayed development in social function, motor skills and language. It is also known as disintegrative psychosis or Heller's syndrome. It is similar to autism, but normal development is first seen before a sudden regression occurs. It is not easy to detect CDD on children during its early stages; the disorder would only be obvious when the child starts to lose his language skills. Some children seem to react to seizures and hallucinations, much to the surprise of their parents. This is often described as a devastating condition, since it affects the family's future. Child disintegrative disorder was first described by Thomas Heller in 1908.
10744	Childhood leukemia is one of the most common cancers that affect children. In this cancer, white blood cells dominate the bone marrow, wherein the red blood cells are produced. The lack of red blood cells in the body is life-threatening since it is the main factor that makes up the blood. This is a well-known cause of death when the disease is not treated.
10745	Childhood nephrotic syndrome is an illness characterized by the kidney's loss of protein in the urine. The condition then causes the blood protein to decrease allowing water movement into the tissues of the body resulting to edema or swelling usually around the eyes, belly, and legs. Children doen't go to the bathroom and gain weight because of the swelling.
10746	Schizophrenia is a chronic mental illness that causes people to communicate and behave differently than most other people through disorganized, detached, paranoid, or illogical behaviors.
10747	Chimerism is a rare disorder wherein chromosomes mix in a single organism. Because of this, a person with chimerism would have two DNA sets, as well as organs that do not match the person's DNA. Chimerism can be exhibited in hermaphrodites, in which the affected organism has both male and female sex organs. This disorder develops during the earliest stages of embryonic growth. Once chimerism forms two non-identical twin embryos merge as one rather than growing separately.
10748	The Chinese restaurant syndrome is a collection of ailments experienced by a person due to the lack of Vitamin B6. Some of these ailments include flushing, sweating, headache and pressure on the face or mouth. Most people believe that this syndrome is caused by monosodium glutamate (MSG), but scientific research has found no link between the two.
10749	Chlamydia is a sexually transmitted disease (STD) caused by bacteria. A common STD, Chlamydia can cause serious complications which may lead to damages in the female reproductive organs. It can also bring forth permanent problems such as infertility in both males and females. This disease is regarded to be a "silent killer" because around 75% of infected people notice no symptoms. If the signs do surface, these are usually noticed a few weeks after the disease is acquired.
10750	Chlamydia trachomatis is a bacterial specie under the genus Chlamydia. Unlike the two other species, Chlamydia trachomatis cannot be detected by using the Gram stain. It is the first kind of Chlamydia found in humans, and was discovered in 1907. C. trachomatis is made up of a pair of human biovars, trachoma and lymphogranuloma venereum.
10751	Choking is the reaction of the larynx due to the obstruction of normal breathing due to pressure from a foreign substance or another force. Choking must be treated immediately to avoid asphyxia. Death can result to asphyxiation.
10752	Cholangiocarcinoma is a kind of cancer affecting the bile ducts. It is a rare form of cancer linked with other diseases such as primary sclerosing cholangitis, congenital liver dysfunction, and infection with liver flukes.
10753	Primary sclerosing cholangitis is a kind of cholangitis caused by an autoimmune reaction. It is an inflammation of the liver's bile ducts and leads to cholestasis, or the blockage of the bile transport towards the gut. This progresses to the accumulation of bile fluids which creates severe damages to the liver as well as jaunice and liver failure. The exact causes of PSC are not yet known. It is oftentimes linked with ulcerative colitis. PSC however differs from ulcerative colitis as it continues to thrive in the body even after the colon has been surgically removed.
10754	Cholecystitis is a disease characterized by the inflammation of the gall bladder. It is mainly caused by gallstones or choleliths which block the cystic duct. The blocking of the bile ducts leads to complications such as bile stasis, inspissation of the bile, and infection done by gut organisms. The disease takes place when the gall bladder's wall becomes swollen. Sometimes this inflammation may develop into necrosis and damage other structures such as the bowel and diaphragm.
10755	Cholelithiasis is the process of forming gallstones or choleliths in the body through accretion of bile components. They can develop anywhere in the biliary area such as a gallbladder and the bile duct. Once the bile duct becomes affected by this process it can cause choledocholithiasis, while obstruction of the biliary tree can lead to jaundice. The gallstones can also reach the pancreas, thus resulting to pancreatitis.
10756	Cholera is a contagious kind of gastroenteritis caused by a bacterium named Vibrio cholerae. It is transmitted to humans via contaminated food or water. The cholera-causing bacterium produces an enterotoxin that obstructs the small intestine leading to diarrhea. Cholera is one of most fatal diseases in history, and it can transform a healthy person into a hypotensive one in a matter of hours. When not treated immediately, patients may die from the disease within three hours after diagnosis.
10757	Cholestasis is a medical condition where the bile fluids cannot pass from the liver to the duodenum. This condition occurs when gallstones block the bile ducts due to side effects from other diseases or as a genetic defect in a person's DNA.
10758	Cholestasis of pregnancy is a condition of intense itching particularly on the hands and feet in late pregnancy.
10759	Cholesteryl ester storage disease is a rare medical condition resulting from the accumulation of cholesteryl esters and triglycerides in the blood, lymph and lymphoid tissue. It is a kind of acid lipase deficiency, similar to the Wolman disease. Children affected with this disorder have an enlarged liver which leads to cirrhosis and eventual chronic liver failure. They may as well have calcium deposits in their adrenal glands which may create jaundice. There is no current cure for the cholesteryl ester storage disease.
10760	Chondroblastoma is a relatively rare but benign bone tumor which grows slowly in the affected part of a person's body. It comes from chondroblasts or cartilage cells and usually leads to the deterioration of muscles, extreme pain in the bones and immobility of the joint. When not treated, chondrolastoma may affect other organs particularly at the lungs.
10761	Chondrocalcinosis is a kind of calcium pyrophosphate deposition disease (CPPD) is rheumatologic condition due to the development of calcium pyrophosphate dihydrate crystals in the tissues.
10762	Chondrocalcinisis, also known as gout and peudogout, is an inflammation of the joints. This condition is characterized mainly by joint pains and calcifications that destroy the joint cartilage.
10763	A painful inflammatory condition affecting the ear is called chondrodermatitis nodularis chronica helicis (CNH) or it is sometimes called Winkler disease. Often seen in middle-aged or elderly men but may also affect women and younger adults, CNH results in a benign tender lump in the cartilaginous portion of the ear.
10764	Chondrodystrophy is a skeletal disorder caused by several genetic mutations that affect cartilage formation. It is characterized by a normal-sized body trunk but with shortened extremeties and limbs. People in this condition are often referred to as dwarves, and almost 1 out of 25,000 children is born with this disorder. In a normal cartilage development, hyaline cartilage covers the long bones as well as the spinal cord, and the limbs grow at the end of the long bones. The cartilage then develops into bone joints, but for a person with chondrodystrophy, this process would not happen and would lead to skeletal dysplasia.
10765	Chondroectodermal dysplasia, also known as Ellis-van Creveld syndrome, is a kind of skeletal dysplasia caused by a genetic disorder.
10766	A chondroma is a benign tumor with a lobular growth pattern. It is made up of tumor cells that produce the cartilaginous matrix, of amorphous, basophilic material. A chondroma has vascular axes within it, and is made up of cartilaginous cells. This tumor is commonly found on small bones in the hand or feet, as well as in tubular bones like the ribs, humerus and femur.
10767	Chondromalacia is a degenerative condition of the cartilage cover at the patella or kneecap. It gives dull pain and persistent discomfort around the affected area, and is common among young adults and active people like soccer players, ballet dancers, rowers and tennis players. This condition happens when the kneecap is exposed to great stress or as a result of an injury in the patella.
10768	Chondromalacia patella is a condition indicating damage to the cartilage under the kneecap. It is also referred to as patellofemoral pain.
10769	Chondrosarcoma is a kind of bone cancer that comes from the cartilage tissue. It affects mostly the pelvic area, femur, arm, humerus, ribs and spine.
10770	Chordoma is a rare malignant neoplasm originating from the cellular sheddings of the notochord. The tumor thrives along the neuroaxis, and is commonly found at clivus and sacrum areas. It has three histological variants namely, classical, dedifferentiated, and chondroid.
10771	Chorea refers to an involuntary movement abnormality, a neurological disorder under the group dyskinesias. It is characterized by the sudden movements of the hands or feet without being controlled.
10772	Chorea acanthocytosis is an inherited illness caused by a genetic mutation that disrupts the proteins in red blood cells. When a blood sample is observed under a microscope, some of the red blood cells look thorny, and these are called acanthocytes.
10773	Choriocarcinoma is a kind of malignant cancer under the group of gestational trophoblastic diseases (GTD). This cancer targets the placenta, and commonly attacks women, rather than men.
10774	Choriorentinitis is an inflammatory illness involving the eye's retinal vessels. It is caused by bacterial, viral, or protozoan infections. When not treated, choriorentinitis may completely damage the retina and cause poor visions for the person with the said disease.
10775	Christmas disease, scientifically known as Hemophilia B, is a blood-clotting illness brought about by a mutation in the Factor IX gene which causes the lack of Factor IX. It is the second and less prevalent form of Hemophilia named after Stephen Christmas, the first patient diagnosed with the disease.
10776	Chromhidrosis is a chemical condition in which a person secretes colored sweat. There are two kinds of sweat glands, the eccrine glands which produce clear fluid and works to control body temperature; and apocrine glands thich secrete milky sweat that becomes the cause of body odor.
10777	Chromomycosis, also known as chromoblastomycosis, is a fungal infection common in places of tropical climate. It can be caused by different types of fungi that thrive under the skin and spreads slowly and becomes difficult to treat.
10778	Chromosomal translocation is a genetic defect in which chromosomes break apart and reconnect with other chromosomes resulting to certain disorders. Chronic myelogenic leukemia and hemophilia are examples of chromosomal translocations.
10779	Chromosome 15q partial deletion is a rare genetic condition produced by a chromosomal aberration wherein the long arm (q) of one copy of the some chromosome 15 is either partially or completely deleted. Angelman syndrome is formed when the mother's copy of the chromosome arm is deleted, while Prader-Willi syndrome is produced. Aside from the deletions, the uniparental disomy of chromosome 15 leads to the same genetic disorders.
10780	Chromosome 15q trisomy is genetic disorder wherein the end of the long arm of chromosome 15 (15q) appears thrice instead of only twice in the body cells. This results to growth delays either before or after birth as well as mental retardation and malformations in the head and face. Other abnormalities are a short neck, disfigured fingers or toes, scoliosis and other skeletal malformations. Males with this condition suffer from genital problems, and cardiac illnesses. In most cases, Chromosome 15q trisomy is a result of a translocation of chromosome balance in one of the parents.
10781	Chromosome 22, microdeletion q11 syndrome, also known as Di George Syndrome, Velocardiofacial syndrome and Strong syndrome is a genetic disorder caused by the deletion of a small part in chromosome 22 and occurs near the midsection of the chromosome located at q11.2.
10782	Adrenal insufficiency, also known as Addison's disease or hypocortisolism, is a disorder resulting from the adrenal glands' insufficient production of certain hormones.
10783	Chronic Berylliosis is the inflammation of the lungs due to inhaling fumes or dust contaning the element beryllium. This metal can be found in coal, soil and volcanic dust and is used in manufacturing and aerospace industries. This disease may appear even after 20 years after exposure to the said element.
10784	A chronic cough is a cough that lasts for eight weeks or longer. It physically drains the affected individual and may have major repercussions.
10785	Chronic daily headaches are incessant head pains experienced daily occur at least 15 days a month, for more than three months.
10786	Chronic exertional compartment syndrome that results from too much exercise or overusing the muscles resulting to pain, swelling, and sometimes disability in the affected leg and arm muscles. The condition is also called chronic compartment syndrome or exercise-induced compartment syndrome.
10787	Chronic fatigue syndrome is a complex disorder where in one suffers from recurring fatigue which cannot be improved by rest and can be aggravated by mental or physical activity. People suffering from CFS do not engage in lots of activities because they easily get tired. CFS can last for years and there are no specific tests available to diagnose this disorder.
10788	Chronic granulomatous disease (CGD) is a group of hereditary illnesses wherein some cells in the immune system have a difficulty producing reactive oxygen compounds the body uses to kill ingested pathogens. This dyfunction leads to the presence of granulomata in the different organs of the body.
10789	A chronic hiccup is a condition where a person experiences hiccups for an abnormally long period of time. A hiccup is an involuntary spasm made by diaphragm. It may occur several times a minute, but it resolves by itself after some time. It is caused by the sudden rush of air to the epiglottis, causing it to close. Hiccups may occur due to some activities like laughing too hard, drinking too much alcohol and eating spicy food. They are usually treated by drinking a glass of water until the spasm subsides. Chronic hiccups meanwhile last from weeks to months and even years for some cases.
10790	Chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyneuropathy is an immune-mediated inflammatory disorder that attacks the peripheral nervous system but as well involves the central nervous system. It is sometimes known as chronic relapsing polyneuropathy and is related to Guillain-Barre syndrome.
10791	Chronic kidney failure is a form of kidney failure which develops gradually with few signs and symptoms in the early stages. Kidney failure is a condition in which the kidneys are unable to filter fluid and waste resulting in their accumulation to dangerous levels in the body.
10792	Chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) is a type of leukemia which attacks a particular lymphocyte called the B cell, which can be found in the bone marrow, whose task is to fight infections. A person with CLL has a damaged B cell, thus it cannot fight infections and rather eats up other blood cells that are able to fight infection.
10793	Chronic lymphocytic thyroiditis is an autoimmune disorder that results when the body's immune system inappropriately attacks the thyroid gland. This causes damage to your thyroid cells and upsets the balance of chemical reactions in the body. The condition is also known as hashimoto's disease
10794	Chronic mountain sickness is a dsease developed during a long period of stay in high altitudes. It is also known as Monge's disease. It can develop several years after living at a high place, and high places are defined to be at over 2500 meters above sea level.
10795	Chronic myelogenous leukemia or CML is a rare kind of blood cell cancer. It is considered as chronic leukemia due to its slow progression pattern, sometimes over a period of years. CML isn't solid tumor that may be removed surgically. Fortunately, prognosis for individuals with CML might be improving due to new medications for treatment of the condition.
10796	Chronic myelomonocytic leukemia is an illness wherein cells that normally develop into monocytes, basophils, eosinophils, and neutrophils become cancerous. This is a slow-progressing kind of myelodysplastic/myeloproliferative illness where countless white blood cells called myelomonocytes are present in one's bone marrow, and crowds out the normal blood cells.
10797	Chronic necrotizing vasculitis is the destruction and inflammation of "blood vessel walls", leading to termination of the related tissue.
10798	Chronic neutropenia is a disorder of the blood wherein there is a decreased number of the neutrophils, which has an effect on the ability of the body to battle infection. Neutrophils act as the body's major defense against particular fungal infections and acute bacterial. When their count goes under 1,000 cells for every blood microliter, the danger of infections somewhat increases.
10799	Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease is the continual obstruction of the brochial airflow, which is usually occurring with chronic bronchitis, emphysema, or both. It leads to persistent decrease in airflow rate from one's lungs when they exhale. The disease is second to heart disease, and often affects men than women.
10800	Chronic pelvic pain refers to any pain in the pelvic region lasting six months or more. It may be a symptom of another disease, or designated as a condition in its own right.
10801	Chronic progressive external ophthalmoplagia is autosomal recessive mitochondrial defect characterized by mitochondrial DNA deletions found in the skeletal muscle. Persons with the disease usually show signs of ataxia, neuropathy, depression, hearing loss and weakness of the external eye muscles.
10802	Chronic recurrent multifocal osteomyelitis is an ailment wherein the bones of a child become painful and inflamed. The condition 'comes and goes', meaning there can be times when one doesn't have symptoms but experience occasional flare-ups.
10803	Chronic renal failure is the progressive and steady loss of the kidney's capability of excreting waste, concentrating urine, and conserving electrolytes. It's defined as permanent decrease in Glormerular Filtration Rate or GFR. This decrease in GFR is adequate enough to produce noticeable alterations in organ function and well-being. The condition is also known as Chronic Kidney Failure.
10804	Chronic sinusitis is the inflammation of the mucous membranes in the sinuses causing fluid buildup that plugs the sinus cavity and prevents normal mucus drainage. The condition recurs or stays longer than 12 consecutive weeks.
10805	Chronic spasmodic dysphonia is a long-term voice disorder wherein there is an involuntary or excessive laryngeal muscle contraction when talking. The vocal cords' movement is strained and forced resulting in quivery, jerky, tight, groaning, or horse voice.
10806	Chronic vulvar pain or Vulvodynia is a pain in the area around the vagina opening that lasts for months.
10807	Churg-Strauss syndrome is among the several types of vasculitis, wherein there's an abnormal over-activation of an asthmatic person's immune system. The syndrome occurs in people having an allergy or asthma history. There is a swelling of the blood vessels in one's lungs, abdomen, nerves, and skin.
10808	Chylous ascites is an uncommon disorder that involves the drainage blockage of the abdominal lymph glands, resulting in the accumulation of milky chyle in the abdominal cavity.
10809	Cicatricial pemphigoid is a comparatively rare blistering disease involving the mucous membranes of the eyes, mouth, throat, nose, and genitals. The disease is an autoimmune disease wherein the immune system generates antibodies that attack certain proteins that attach the epidermal cells to each other. The disrupted connection causes the cell to separate from the skin's lower layers, thus blisters form.
10810	Ciguatera fish poisoning is a type of marine toxin disease connected with eating a contaminated fish. The poisonous component is ciguatoxin. The poison is produced in small quantities by specific algae and other algae-like organisms known as dinoflagellates. Larger fish that are contaminated with ciguatoxin can build up poison to a hazardous level that can make a person sick if ingested.
10811	Cinchonism is defined as a pathological disorder involving a prolonged or excessive use of a white-crystalline alkloid component called quinine, or its natural supplier -the cinchona bark. Quinine is primarily used for treating resistant malaria, night-time muscle cramps, as well as can act as an "abortifacient". It can harmfully affect nearly all body system, the most common being cinchonism or quinine poisoning.
10812	Cirrhosis is the condition in which the liver has incurred severe damages due to inflammation or fibrosis. In this state the liver is already scarred and nodules have formed in and around it. When left untreated cirrhosis can cause death as the liver can no longer deliver its normal functions.
10813	Citrullinemia is defined as a hereditary condition in which the mutations of genes cause ammonia and some other harmful substances to build up in the blood. There are two kinds of Citrullinemia, Type I and Type II. The disorder is categorized under disorders of the urea cycle, which is a series of chemical reactions taking place inside the liver.
10814	Clap is a contagious sexually-transmitted disease commonly known as gonorrhea. It is an infectious disease characterized by swelling, pain and abnormal discharge in the genital areas.
10815	Clarkson's disease, also known as capillary leak syndrome with monoclonal gammopathy is a rare medical disorder characterized by an increased number of certain blood proteins and blood leaking out of the blood vessels. It may develop into plasma cell leukemia when left undiagnosed.
10816	Claudication is a leg pain that is often a symptom of peripheral arterial disease, which is a potentially serious but treatable circulation problem.
10817	Cleft lip is a type of birth defect that happens when a fetus' nose and upper jaw tissues don't attach as expected at the time of fetal development, which results in a cleft or split lip. Generally, cleft lip doesn't lead to health problems and it's treatable. In a few cases, some cleft lip infants have trouble feeding.
10818	Cleft palate is a type of congenital defect that results from an abnormal facial development that occurred during the gestation period. It can occur together with a cleft lip. The cleft is defined as a division in the natural structure of the human body. The cleft palate occurs when the two plates of the skull that form the roof of the mouth are divided. The cleft palate can be a complete or incomplete occurrence. .
10819	Cleidocranial dysplasia is an inherited condition that mainly affects bone development. It is distinguished by an absence or incompletely developed collar bones, as well as facial and cranial abnormalities.
10820	Click-murmur syndrome, also known as Mitral valve prolapse, is a heart disorder in which the valve between the left upper chamber of the heart and its left lower chamber does not close properly.
10821	Clinical depression is a medical illness involving the mind and body, affecting how an individual thinks and behaves. The condition causes various emotional and physical problems and may hinder the individual's usual daily activities.
10822	Cloacal exstrophy is a rare although severe birth defect where most of the abdominal organs, including the bladder and intestines, are exposed. The condition is named so, because the cloaca refers to the area in the embryo which eventually forms into the lower abdominal wall structures. When a child is born with cloacal exstrophy, a part of the large intestines is located outside of the body, and on one side lies the bladder in halves. In males, it occurs that the penis is short and flat, and sometimes cut in half; while with females, the clitoris is also cut in half. The condition may also result in two vaginal openings.
10823	Clostridium difficile infection is a contagious disease present among closed spaces such as hospitals. This disease commonly affects the colon causing rectal and gastrointestinal complications.
10824	Clubfoot is a congenital defect wherein the foot is inverted and down. It is a common defect, occurring in one in every 1,000 births. The condition more commonly afflicts males than females. When untreated, those who have clubfoot will seem like they are walking on their ankles.
10825	Cluster headache is defined as intense pain felt at one's temple or area surrounding the eye on any side of the head. The pain lasts moderately short, and usually happens in clusters for six- to eight-week period. This disorder is comparatively rare, and mostly affects men above thirty years old.
10826	CMV antenatal infection is an uncommon disorder wherein a fetus is infected with cytomegalovirus through its mother. Cytomegalovirus or CMV originates from a virus of the same name, belonging to herpes family. This infection can be passed on through human contact.
10827	Coal workers' pneumoconiosis or Black Lung Disease is an illness that affects the lungs, wherein coal dust deposits spread throughout the organ resulting from prolonged inhalation of coal dust. Coal dust can block airways. The disease develops into more serious illness called progressive massive fibrosis.
10828	Coats disease is an uncommon eye condition that causes partial or full blindness. It is distinguished by an abnormal growth of blood vessels at the back of the retina, causing retinal detachment.
10829	Coccidioidomycosis is an infection caused by Coccidioides immitis, a dimorphic fungus.
10830	Coccidioidomycosis is an infectious condition brought about by fungus known as coccidioides immitis found in soil. The disease affects the skin and lungs, and is distinguished by too much nodules and sputum. It may occur as a severe or mild, progressive infections spreading all through one's body. Coccidioidomycosis' progressive form can often be fatal.
10831	Cockayne's syndrome is defined as an uncommon genetic disorder involving 'progressive multisystem degeneration'. The DNA or genetic material inside body cells is harmed by ultraviolet radiation. Generally, the body is able to repair the damaged DNA, but individuals with the syndrome are deficient of this ability.
10832	Celiac disease, or coeliac disease, is an illness that affects various organs in the body. In this condition, the body responds negatively to a certain kind of protein that interferes with absorption of nutrients, causing developmental delay and dysfunctional body organs.
10833	Coffin-Lowry syndrome is an uncommon genetic condition linked with delayed development and mental retardation. It is also distinguished by skeletal and craniofacial abnormalities. Males are typically more extremely affected compared to females. The syndrome is inherited in a pattern known as X-linked.
10834	Coffin-Siris syndrome is an uncommon genetic disorder distinguished by absent or underdeveloped toenails and fifth finger, as well as coarse features of the face.
10835	Cogan syndrome is defined as a rheumatic disease that may lead to hearing loss, dizziness, and vision difficulty. The syndrome can also be linked to blood-vessel swelling in other parts of the body; this may cause damage of major organs and even death.
10836	Cohen syndrome is an uncommon genetic condition characterized by obesity, prominent frontal teeth, and decreased muscle tone. In some individuals, there is a low level of white blood cells. Its transmission is in an autosomal recessive manner with variable expression.
10837	Cold agglutinin disease is a form of hemolytic anemia, wherein there is a decrease in the levels of red blood cells caused by malfunction of the body's immune system. The body mistakenly creates antibodies that destroy healthy red blood cells during cold temperatures. Red blood cells normally have a 120-day lifespan before being disposed by the body's spleen; however, in people with the disease, they are prematurely destroyed and production in bone marrow can't compensate for the loss.
10838	Cold contact urticaria is defined as a long-term or chronic condition in which the skin forms hives that become very itchy and red when exposed to cold. The hives are generated through rapid histamine release caused by eosinophils and IgE antibodies in response to cold stimulus. Rapid cooling from evaporation after an individual gets out from the swimming pool may trigger the condition even during warm days.
10839	Cold sores in children are blisters that appear on the corners of the mouth that result to painful lesions and irritating discomfort. These blisters are caused by the herpes virus.
10840	Colibacillosis is an infection brought about by the Escherichia coli, or E. coli bacteria.
10841	Colic is the condition wherein babies seem to cry and fuss a lot despite of the fact that they are perfectly healthy, well-fed and well taken care of; one of the most worrisome and difficult problems in infancy that is very disappointing for parents; usually common in both breast-fed and bottle-fed infants.
10842	Colitis is a disease of the gastrointestinal tract primarily distinguished by colon inflammation. The disease causes sores and swellings, known as ulcers, in the large intestines' top layer lining.
10843	Collagenous colitis is an inflammatory bowel disorder, causing chronic 'watery diarrhea'. It is also referred to as microscopic colitis, as there's no sign of swelling on the colon's swelling when viewed with colonoscopy.
10844	It is a condition in which a lung or both lungs collapse due to air pressure that leaks into the chest cavity.
10845	Coloboma, Ocular is an uncommon chromosomal disorder that involves Chromosome 22 abnormalities. The eye has a hole in one of its structures, such as in the lens, iris, eyelid, optic disc, retina, or choroids. The disorder is inborn, and may be due to a gap known as choroids fissure in between the eye's two structures. This gap exists early during development inside the uterus, failing to completely close before an infant is born. It can affect both or only one of the eyes.
10846	Colon cancer is malignancy (cancer) of the large intestine; which is the lower part of the digestive system; usually starting as small, benign cell appearing in clusters known as adenomatous polyps.
10847	Colon polyps are small clusters of cells that form on the colon lining. Even though this condition is not harmful it can also develop as cancer over a period of time.
10848	Colon polyps is a clump of cells on the colon lining.
10849	Colonic ischemia is a medical condition mostly found in adults at 50 years of age or older. It is a condition in which the colon is inflamed and injured. The condition is also called ischemic colitis.
10850	Color blindness or otherwise color vision deficiency is characterized as the ability of the individual to perceive and distinguish color differences. This medical condition is mostly genetic in nature, and can also be due to certain eye, brain and nerve damage as well as exposure to harmful chemicals. Some individuals with color blindness have normal vision but simply have difficulty in distinguishing color variance.
10851	Colorado tick fever (CTF) is defined as a tick-borne viral illness that was largely suffered by humans in the United States. This medical condition is usually caused by an infection that is directly related to the Colorado tick fever virus, which is recorded to be a type of Coltivirus genera..
10852	Colorectal cancer is the medical term for both colon cancer and rectal cancer. The former is cancer of the colon, while the latter is cancer of the colon's last 6 inches.
10853	Coma is a state in which an individual is unconscious for a prolonged length of time due to a variety of problems such as a stroke, traumatic head injury, brain tumor, or an underlying illness such as an infection or diabetes.
10854	Familial combined hyperlipidemia is categorized as a disorder brought about by abnormally high levels of high blood triglycerides and cholesterol. This type of medical condition is typically passed down or an inherited disorder through family generations.
10855	A common cold is characterized as an infection that affects the upper respiratory tract, throat and nose. This condition is usually harmless and is known to be self-limiting. There are about 200 viruses that are known to cause common colds, making this condition highly prevalent among adults and children alike.
10856	Common Variable Immunodeficiency is type of disorder that is characterized by extremely low levels of serum immunoglobulin or what is known as antibodies as well as the increased susceptibility to infections. The underlying cause if this medical condition is not known, but is known to be a relatively common type of immunodeficiency.
10857	Community-acquired pneumonia (CAP) is a respiratory tract illness in which the alveoli in the lungs are filled with water, making the oxygen unable to enter the lungs for respiration. It is a common disease among the elderly, but it can affect people of all ages.
10858	Compartment syndrome is categorized as an acute medical disorder that usually develops after surgery and injury, where the increase in pressure that is usually caused by inflammation within the body's fascial compartment. Without prompt treatment, this condition can lead to muscle death and nerve damage.
10859	Complex regional pain syndrome (CRPS) is categorized as a highly uncommon and chronic condition that typically affects the patient's leg or arm. Seldom, the disease may spread and affect other areas of the body. The very nature of this medical condition is this not clearly understood up this day.
10860	Complicated grief is painful, complicate, and debilitating reaction to grief caused by distress and other emotional experiences.
10861	Compulsive gambling is an impulse-control disorder in which an individual cannot resist the temptation to perform a harmful act to oneself or another individual.
10862	Compulsive hoarding syndrome is an individual's excessive collection of items that may or may not have value and inability to inability to discard these things.
10863	Compulsive overeating is a condition in which an individual cannot resist the regular consumption of unusually large amounts of food. It is also called binge-eating disorder.
10864	Compulsive sexual behavior is an individual's preoccupation and overwhelming urge for sex. It is also called hypersexuality, nymphomania, or erotomania.
10865	Compulsive Skin Picking or Dermatillomania is an obsessive compulsive disorder characterized by the urge to repetitively pick one's own skin resulting to damage to the skin and skin bleeding; which is often followed by depression or hopelessness when the damage has been done to the skin.
10866	Compulsive stealing or kleptomania is a serious mental disorder in which an individual cannot resist the urge to steal items often with little value.
10867	Concussion is a condition that interferes with how the brain works affecting a person's memory, speech, judgment, balance, and coordination.
10868	Conduct disorder is the most severe psychiatric disorder usually affecting children and adolescents involving persistent antisocial behavior violating the rights of others; characterized by activities such as stealing, truancy, substance abuse, and vandalism. These behavior patterns are usually exhibited at home, school, and even in social functions and causes significant impairment the family, social, and academic performance of the child or adolescent.
10869	A conductive hearing loss is characterized as one that greatly affects the ear structures that is used to conduct the sound into the person's inner ear, which include both the outer and middle ear. Infections in the middle ear are among the most common causes of this hearing impairment.
10870	Condyloma is more popularly known as genetal wart, categorized as a sexually transmitted disease that has external manifestations most particularly in the genitalia and anal area. Internal warts grow on the cervix and the upper vagina as well as in the male urethra. The lesions usually appear raised and pinkish in color but do not usually produce any other symptom.
10871	Condyloma acuminatum is more popularly known as genital warts and is largely categorized as a sexually transmitted disease caused by the human papillomavirus. The estimated incubation period of this disease is approximately three months and is known to be highly contagious. The warts usually grow on the perianal and vulva areas, the cervix and vagina walls as well as the penis shaft for males. Lesions appear to be wart like and can be easily recognizable upon application of acetic acid or vinegar during examination.
10872	Cone dystrophy is categorized as a genetic form of blindness which typically results in the impairment of the patient's photoreceptor cone cells, which is an essential part of the human vision.
10873	Congenital adrenal hyperplasia is characterized by a number of genetic conditions that directly affects the adrenal glands. This medical condition can significantly interfere with normal development and growth among children. This includes the normal development of the patient's genitals, both affecting men and women.
10874	Congenital afibrinogenemia is categorized as an extremely rare disorder that involves the inability to produce fibrinogen, an essential element of the blood clotting process. This is considered as an autosomal recessive disorder.
10875	Congenital amaurosis is another name for Leber's hereditary optic neuropathy (LHON). It is a degenerative eye disease characterized by the inflammation of the retinal ganglion cells. This condition may lead to permanent loss of vision.
10876	Congenital amputation is characterized as the absence of a fetal part or limb at birth. This congenital condition is said to be a result of possible constriction of the fibrous bands inside the membrane surrounding the fetus. It can also be due to the exposure to certain substances that are known to cause birth defects. Genetics can also play a factor.
10877	Congenital antithrombin III deficiency is defined as the lack of the potent inhibitor for the coagulation cascade. This is categorized as a non-vitamin K-dependent protease that is known to exhibit the coagulation through lysing factor and thrombin. This type of deficiency is categorized as an autosomal dominant disorder that an infant can inherit through a copy of a defective gene. For severe congenital antithrombin III deficiency, the neonate has inherited 2 types of defective genes and is often easily noted during infancy stage.
10878	Congenital central hypoventilation syndrome, or CCHS, is a disease that affects the central nervous system. The disease is characterized by an impairment or absence in the body's automatic control for breathing. The patient's body forgets to breathe, even during sleep. The symptoms for congenital central hypoventilation syndrome can be mild or severe, but typical symptoms include abnormal pupils, which occur in 70% of cases; poor breathing functions especially during sleep, lack of spontaneous breathing, and bluish color in lips, nails, and skin due to breathing problems. Half of the patients with congenital central hypoventilation syndrome can breathe almost normally when they are awake; however, it is during sleep when they encounter difficulty breathing. Other characteristics to watch out for when diagnosing one with congenital central hypoventilation syndrome are: no muscular or respiratory problems that may cause the breathing difficulty; no heart disease; consistent poor breathing during sleep, and that the symptoms are noticed when the child is less than a year old and continues. Early diagnosis of the disease is important, because when it goes undetected, this may result in death. Once it is determined that a patient has congenital central hypoventilation syndrome, they can seek treatment for the disease. Prior to treatment, the patient will undergo a variety of tests, among the first will determine the severity of the problem. Other tests will determine the respiratory aspects of the disease, as well as neurological and cardiac tests. During the course of treatment, the patient will use breathing support apparatus, such a respirator. Some children may need to use it for 24 hours of the day. In more severe cases, patients undergo surgery that will allow them to use a surgical implant that provides electrical stimulation to the diaphragm muscle to help improve breathing. Studies show that genetics plays a role in the occurrence of congenital central hypoventilation syndrome. Research also shows that since 20% of the cases are accompanied by Hirschsprung disease, that there is an underlying connection that can be found in the genetics of the patients. Children born with congenital central hypoventilation syndrome can still lead normal and active lives; however, extra supervision is needed during certain activities such as swimming when the body can forget to breathe when in the water.
10879	Congenital cystic adenomatoid malformation (CAM) is categorized as a highly distinct entity, which was discovered way back in 1949. CAM is characterized as a developmental hamartomatous, an abnormality of the lung that comes with an adenomatoid abundance of cysts that resemble bronchioles.
10880	Congenital deafness may or may not be inherited or genetic in nature. It can also be dues to the exposure of the pregnant mother to infections such as the rubella virus. Roughly about 80% of the congenital deafness cases that are-syndromatic, which are highly heterogeneous but the mutations in the Connexin 26 molecules usually account to almost half of the patients.
10881	Congenital diaphragmatic hernia (CDH) is the medical term used to refer to a number of different congenital birth defects that usually involve the highly abnormal development of the child's diaphragm. Among the most common deformity in majority of the cases is malformation of the diaphragm. Newborns with CDH typically suffer from severe respiratory pain which is considered as a life-threatening case unless treatment is administered appropriately.
10882	The congenital erythropoietic porphyria is categorized as an extremely rare case of autosomal recessive condition, and is more popularly known as Gunther's disease. This serious medical condition is a cause of various gene mutations in which the symptoms are known to development as early as the infancy stage. Congenital erythropoietic porphyries is often marked a cause of the patient's anemia among fetus even before birth.
10883	Congenital facial diplegia or more popularly known as Mobius syndrome is categorized as an extremely rare genetic disorder that causes facial paralysis among newborn babies. This is known to be caused by the underdevelopment of the sixth and seventh cranial nerves that are known to control the facial expression and eye movements.
10884	Congenital heart disoder is a kind of heart ailment diagnosed in newborns, and usually includes some structural defects that often lead to arrhythmia as well as the possible malfunctioning of the heart muscles. This disease normally appears when the heart of the fetus is not able to function properly because of incomplete development or some irregular structure of the valves.
10885	Congenital heart septum defects one of the most common types of heart disorders that involves the septum and diagnosed at birth. This defect is characterized by a hole in the wall of the infant's heart that divides the left and right chambers and allows the blood to freely flow through that hole.
10886	Congenital hepatic fibrosis (CHF) is an extremely rare form of hereditary disorder that is characterized by the detection of a periportal fibrosis with some marked unevenly shaped producing bile ducts, as well as esophageal varices and intrahepatic portal hypertension. Congenital hepatic fibrosis is often associated with renal function disorder that is typically due to an autosomal recessive polycystic kidney disease.
10887	Herpes simplex virus (HSV) is one of the highly identified common infection carriers among humans of all ages. This type of virus usually occurs globally and produces a large variety of illnesses such as infections of the CNS, mucocutaneous infections, as well and sporadically infections affecting the visceral organs.
10888	Congenital hip dysplasia is abnormal formation of the hip joint wherein the ball on top of the thighbone is not stable in the socket that is present since birth, which is characterized by irregularity of leg positions, asymmetric fat folds, and reduced movement in the affected side.
10889	Congenital hypothyroidism is also medically referred to as endemic cretinism which is characterized by the inadequate production of thyroid hormone among newborn infants. This typically occurs due to an anatomic defect in the infant's gland, which is categorized as an inborn defect of iodine deficiency or thyroid metabolism.
10890	Congenital ichthyosis is primarily characterized by the deep thickening of an infant's keratin layer of the skin. Babies with this medical condition usually have massive, horny and plate-like scales with marked abnormalities of the ears, eyes, mouth, as well as appendages. This type of armor significantly limits the movement as well as compromises the protective barrier of the skin, and makes infants more susceptible to infection and metabolic abnormalities.
10891	Congenital insensitivity to pain with anhidrosis (CIPA) is a identified as an extremely rare genetic disorder that primarily affects the nervous system, preventing the sensations of cold, heat and pain. An individual afflicted with CIPA will not be able to detect pain or even differentiate intense temperatures.
10892	Congenital megacolon is more popularly known as the Hirschsprung's disease, which is characterized by a congenital deficiency of nerves in a certain part of the colon. This is usually detected in neonates during the very first 24-hours of the infant's life. This disorder generally causes constipation and difficulty in bowel movements, which can possible develop to stool blockage in the intestine.
10893	Congenital mesoblastic nephroma is a type of tumor of the kidney that is usually detected before birth through ultrasound, typically during the first three months of fetal development. The tumor contains fibroblastic cells or the connective cell tissues and may continue to spread to the other kidney or neighboring tissues. This congenital disorder has been found to be more prevalent among males.
10894	Congenital microvillus atrophy is identified to be one of the leading causes of secretory diarrhea during the infant's first weeks of life. A The medical term microvillus atrophy was initially used to categorize the disease way back in 1982. The typical clinical presentation of congenital microvillus atrophy includes the profuse watery secretory diarrhea that usually starts in the first few hours of life.
10895	Congenital myopathy is characterized by a muscle disorder that is already present at birth, and this includes a great number of highly distinct neuromuscular syndromes and disorders. In most cases, congenital myopathies do not display any evidence of progressive dystrophic progress or any inflammations. This comes with the marked muscle weakness and loss of muscle tone that significantly delays motor development of babies such as learning how to walk.
10896	Congenital nephrotic syndrome is a genetic disorder that affects the kidney and is characterized by the presence of protein in the urine. This is a rare form of disease that is usually seen among Finnish families. This condition is primarily caused by nephrin in the kidney.
10897	Congenital rubella usually affects the developing fetus during pregnancy when the mother is exposed to the rubella virus, especially the first trimester, as this is known to be highly crucial stage.
10898	Congenital syphilis is an intense, disabling, and frequently life-threatening infection reported in infants. Syphilis may be spread through an infected pregnant woman's placenta and pass on to the unborn child. Almost fifty percent of the children infected with the disease at the time of development die shortly prior or after their birth.
10899	Congenital toxoplasmosis is defined as a set of symptoms and traits caused by fetus infection with an organism called Toxoplasma gondii. The disease is usually mild for the mother, and might not even be evident. However, the infected fetus can be the cause of many problems. Early pregnancy infection results in serious health troubles compared to getting the disease later in pregnancy.
10900	Congestive heart disease is a disorder that may result from any type of functional or structural disease, which impairs the heart's ability to pump or fill sufficient quantity of blood all through the body. The term "congestive" is taken from blood 'backing up' or 'congesting' into the abdomen, liver, lungs, and lower extremities.
10901	Conjoined twins are identical twins that have failed to completely separate into two individuals usually joined at the chest, head, or pelvis. Some may even share one or more internal organs.
10902	Conjunctivitis is an infection or inflammation of the eyelids' membrane lining known as conjunctiva. This tissue aids in maintaining the eyeball and eyelid moist. The disease is among the most treatable and widespread infections in adults and children. It is also frequently called "pink eye".
10903	Conn's syndrome is an infection of the adrenal glands, wherein there is too much 'aldosterone' hormone secretion. The hormone is responsible for regulation of chief bodily functions, for instance blood pressure, correct electrolyte balance, and secondary water retention. The excessive secretion increases potassium loss and raises sodium re-absorption. The condition is also known as primary hyperaldosteronism.
10904	Constipation is one of the most common problems in the digestive system characterized by infrequent bowel movements, passing hard stools, and straining when moving a bowel resulting to feeling bloated, lethargic, and feelings of discomfort or pain.
10905	Constipation in children is a condition where children find it difficult to defecate. This is characterized by hard solid stool and stiff bowel movement.
10906	Constitutional growth delay or CGD is used to define the temporary delay in growth of the skeletal system, resulting to pubertal delay and short stature. Children with CGD have normal birth length and weight, but at one point of their growing years, there is a slow down in development. Some teens have normal growth rate as younger kids, but lag behind and do not begin pubertal development and growth spurt like most teens. Individuals with CGD are often referred to as "late bloomers".
10907	Contact dermatitis is a skin condition showing a red, itchy rash resulting from direct contact with certain substances such as cosmetics, soap, jewelry, or weeds including poison ivy or poison oak.
10908	Contact lens solution toxicity generally refers to the eye conditions that develop due to unwanted reactions to contact lens solutions. This type of reaction if often categorized as a form of allergy and is inflammatory in nature.
10909	Continuous muscle fiber activity syndrome, also known as neuromyotonia, is a rare illness characterized by abnormal movements of the muscles due to impaired impulses at the peripheral nervous system. These abnormal impulses may continue even during one's sleep. Long term cramps, muscle pain and stiffness may be encountered at random instances, making it difficult for the muscles to relax.
10910	Conversion disorder is defined as a psychiatric disorder wherein people convey emotional distress through 'physical' manifestations and symptoms. The symptoms appear involuntarily, while medical examination doesn't explain any clear-defined root of the dysfunction.
10911	Cooley's anemia, also called Thassalemia, is a hereditary blood disorder distinguished by less number of red blood cells and less hemoglobin in the body. Due to the decreased amount of red blood cells, the condition leads to anemia.
10912	Copper transport disease is a hereditary disorder involving copper metabolism, passed on as X-linked trait. Copper builds up at unusually low levels in the brain and liver, but higher level than normal in the intestinal lining and kidney.
10913	Coproporhyria, also known as Porphria, is a term used to define a set of hereditary disorders arising from troubles in the body's manufacture of a substance identified as 'heme'. Heme is present in each body tissue. The body utilizes enzymes to transform 'porphyrins' into heme. When one of the enzymes has an inherited deficiency, the process of transformation is interrupted. This causes porphyrins to accumulate in one's body, which in turn leads to the symptoms of Coproporhyria.
10914	Cor pulmonale as defined, is a change in function and structure of the heart's right ventricle resulting from a respiratory system disorder. It is a condition wherein the heart's right side fails, caused by lengthened high blood pressure in right ventricle and pulmonary artery.
10915	A corneal abrasion is characterized by a very painful scratch or scrape on the surface of the cornea. This is the transparent window covering the iris, which is the circular colored portion of the eye. Since the cornea has nerve endings just below the surface, even the slightest damage on the surface can be very painful.
10916	Corneal dystrophy is defined as a disorder wherein one or more portions of the eye's cornea lose normal clarity, resulting from an increase of a cloudy material. There are more than twenty types of corneal dystrophies affecting all parts of a cornea, including keratoconus, Fuch's dystrophy, lattice dystrophy, and map-dot fingerprint dystrophy.
10917	Recurrent corneal erosion is characterized by a disorder that affects the eyes. This condition is caused by the failure of the epithelial cells in the cornea to attach to the underlying basement membrane. Patients would usually feel frequent pain and loss of the cells that ultimately causes the exposure of the cornea.
10918	A corneal foreign body typically occurs when the person's cornea has a certain piece of foreign matter that is lodged in it. Among the most common foreign bodies identified include paint chips, metal and wood debris, dust particles and plant materials.
10919	Cornelia de Lange syndrome is a very uncommon disorder that involves delayed physical growth, as well as a variety of malformations of the face, limbs, and head. The traits of this condition vary expansively among affected people, and differ from fairly mild to serious.
10920	Corns are primarily characterized by the small and often very rough mounds of dead skin that usually forms between and on the toes. These are usually hard, firm and have a waxy core that bores down into the skin of the toes and pressing into the underlying nerves and tissues, causing extreme pain.
10921	Coronary artery disease is the obstruction of blood flow through the coronary arteries.
10922	Coronary heart disease is a condition in which the arteries responsible for supplying blood to the heart muscle, harden and narrow. This is the result of a plaque on its inner walls. This plaque leads to less blood flow throughout the arteries, which in turn causes the heart muscle to not get the oxygen it requires. The condition is also known as 'Coronary Artery Disease'.
10923	Corpus callosum agenesis is an uncommon congenital disorder, wherein there's a partial or complete absence of an area of the brain that connects its two cerebral hemispheres known as 'corpus callosum'.
10924	Cortical dysplasia is a congenital disorder characterized by the failure of neurons usually found near the brain's celebral cortex to migrate in the proper formation in utero, causing the neurons to grow larger than normal. This is found to result to disorganization of the normal structure of the cerebral cortex, causing seizures and developmental delays.
10925	Corticobasal degeneration (CBD) is an incurable neurological disorder that manifests itself through muscle rigidity and speech problems. Symptoms usually begin surfacing when patients reach 60 years old, affecting one side of the body and eventually progressing to both sides in 6 to 8 years. It may affect speech first before interfering with muscle movement.
10926	An extremely rare disease with only 200 to 300 cases reported worldwide, Costello Syndrome is a genetic abnormality that slows down development and causes mental retardation. Patients share the same facial features, with loose skin and flexible joints, and are more prone to develop certain diseases like heart abnormalities, non-cancerous and cancerous tumors, and cell carcinoma. Individuals affected by this condition are relatively short and may possess lesser levels of growth hormones.
10927	Costochondritis (or Costal chondritis) is a mild inflammation of the cartilage that connects a rib to the breastbone. It is also called Tietze's syndrome after the German surgeon who first described the disorder, Alexander Tietze. Depending on the severity of the case, swelling may or may not be present in the cartilage. It causes sharp pain, not unlike that of a heart attack.
10928	Costosternal chondrodynia is also referred to as costosternal syndrome, costochondritis, or chest wall pain. The condition is the inflammation of a cartilage that connects a rib to the breastbone.
10929	Costosternal syndrome is also referred to as costosternal chondrodynia, costochondritis, or chest wall pain. The condition is the inflammation of a cartilage that connects a rib to the breastbone.
10930	Cot death, also known as sudden infant death syndrome (SIDS), is an unexplained death among infants ranging from 1 to 12 months old. This condition is common among infants with low birth weight.
10931	Cote Adampoulos Pantelakis syndrome is a disease that develops before birth causing multiple joint contractures and characterized by muscle weakness and fibrosis. It is a rare disorder affecting the jaw, spine, shoulders, elbows, wrists, fingers, hips, knees, ankles, feet and toes. These contractures are accompanied by muscle weakness, limiting movements further.
10932	Couvade syndrome is also known as sympathetic pregnancy, pregnant dad syndrome, and male pregnancy experience is a condition wherein the expectant father is experiencing some of the physical pregnancy symptoms prior the birth of the baby. The condition is usually common in first-time fathers; however there are also cases involving fathers who had previous children.
10933	The genetic disorder Cowden's disease causes the tumor-like growths called hamartomas to develop on one's skin or mucous membranes. Noncancerous and small, this may also grow in various areas of the body including the intestinal tract. Patients with Cowden syndrome are much more likely to contact uterus cancer, breast cancer, and thyroid cancer.
10934	Cowpox or catpox is now an uncommon skin disease caused by a virus called cowpox that is transmitted by touching infected animals. In the 18th century, the disease was contracted when a person touches the udders of cow that are infected. Today, however, this disease that causes hands to develop postular lesions and the skin to have red blisters is usually transmitted by touching cats, hence it is also called cat pox. Interestingly, the cowpox virus proved to be useful in the past two centuries when it became the first vaccine for the smallpox.
10935	Coxsackievirus infection, also known as the Keshan disease, is an inflammation of the heart due to the Coxsackie virus. When not treated, the disease can be fatal. It is an illness endemic in some parts of rural China. Research studies have also shown that the disease is triggered by low selenium levels in the body. Selenium supplements are likewise administered to treat the disease.
10936	Cranial arteritis is a condition in which the lining of the arteries is inflamed. Affect arteries may be in the neck, upper body and arms, but usually occurs in the head especially the arteries in the temples. The condition is also called giant cell arteritis, temporal arteritis, or granulomatous arteritis.
10937	Craniodiaphyseal dysplasia (CDD or lionitis) is an uncommon hereditary autosomal recessive bone disorder characterized by deposits of calcium in the skull, causing the size of cranial foramina and the hole in the cervical spinal canal to shrink. This deforms facial features of the patients, who in most cases die at an early age.
10938	Craniofacial dysostosis is a disorder that was first described by a French doctor named Octave Crouzon. The doctor found out that the patients who are affected by the disorder are a mom-and-daughter tandem, suggesting that craniofacial dysostosis is of genetic basis.
10939	Craniofrontonasal dysplasia is a rare genetic disorder characterized by an abnormal structure of the head and face, as well as the hands, feet and some skeletal bones. Among the symptoms of the disorder are widely spaced eyes, a cleft structure on the nose, an abnormally wide mouth, deformities in the fingers and toes, and sometimes underdeveloped parts of the face. The skull may as well suffer from certain malformations due to the premature joining of the sutures. It is currently described as an autosomal dominant disorder.
10940	Craniostenosis is the disorder wherein an infant's or child's skull sutures close prematurely thereby interrupting normal skull growth and brain development.
10941	Craniosynostosis is a condition that arises when one or more sutures that join the skull of an infant or child close(s) prematurely, resulting to complications in normal growth of the skull and brain. It can cause craniostenosis, a skull deformity, and increased intracranial pressure. It affects one in 1,800 to 2,200 infants.
10942	CREST syndrome (Calcinosis Raynaud's Esophagus Sclerodactyly Telangiectasia) is a disorder caused by a glitch in our connective tissues, the substance found outside our cells that hold the tissues and organs of our bodies together. It can be a benign condition that won't affect our bodily functions, yet in some cases it can be serious and fatal. A subset of sleroderma, it causes problems in the skin and blood vessels, and in extreme cases, lungs, digestive tract or heart.
10943	When not remedied, congenital deficiency of thyroid hormones causes cretinism, a disorder characterized by extremely stunted physical and mental growth.
10944	The fatal and rare denerative brain disease Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease (CJD) is caused by proteins called prions that multiply exponentially by refolding native proteins to infected state. Disrupting cell function, CJD results to cell death, rapid and progressive dementia, loss of memory, hallucinations and behavioral changes. Death can occur in as little as four months after the onset of the first symptoms.
10945	Cri du chat syndrome is a genetic abnormality caused by the partial deletion of the chromosome number 5. Its name is French for cry or call of the cat in reference to the meowing sound the infant makes when crying, a manifestation of the infant's larynx and nervous system problems.
10946	Crib Death, which is also called as sudden infant death syndrome (SIDS) or cot death, is the sudden and unexplained death of a healthy baby that occurs while sleeping.
10947	Crigler Najjar Syndrome (CNS) is a serious disorder that interferes with the metabolism of bilirubin, a chemical formed from the breakdown of blood, usually afflicting new borns. This causes an inherited form of non-hemolytic jaundice, which may often result to brain damage in infants.
10948	Crimean-Congo Haemorrhagic Fever It is the viral haemorrhagic fever of the Nairovirus group though it is mainly a zoonosis, erratic cases and outbreaks of CCHF can also affect humans.
10949	Crohn's disease is a chronic, inflammatory disorder most usually affecting the gastrointestinal tract. It can constrict the bowel and thus cause bowel obstruction, make abnormal passageway between the bowel and other body parts such as the skin, and result to inflammation without causing strictures or fistulae. Among the parts afflicted with this disorder are the ileum and the large intestine, as well as any part of the digestive system including the mouth and the anus.
10950	The rare syndrome Cronkhite-Canada is a disorder prevalent among individuals 50 to 60 years old and characterized by the presence of multiple polyps in our digestive tract. The polyps affect the large intestine, stomach, small intestine and esophagus, causing gastrointestinal disturbances, malnutrition, malabsorption and even colorectal cancer. The polyps are hamartomas, growths which are often non-cancerous.
10951	Croup refers to diseases of the respiratory system which are caused by inflamed upper airway. Characterized by sneeze and barking cough, vomiting, nausea, fever and high pitch sound the child makes when inhaling, Croup is often a benign condition that is treatable at home. Croup diseases are spasmotic croup, laryngotracheobronchopneumitis, acute laryngotracheitis, laryngeal diptheria and laryngotracheobronchitis. Laryngotracheobronchopneumitis and laryngotracheobronchitis are caused by bacterial infection and often severe.
10952	The hereditary disorder Crouzon syndrome arises when the bones of a baby's skull and face close early or are incapable of expanding. This abnormal bone development is caused by disturbances in the development of the branchial arches and leads to malformation of the skull and facial features. Typically, individuals with Crouzon syndrome have low-lying ears and malformed ear canals that cause hearing loss.
10953	Crouzondermoskeletal syndrome is a rare disorder not unlike Crouzon syndrome because it is caused by specific bones in our skull that join prematurely. It is distinguished from Crouzon syndrome by other disorders that also afflict patients with Crouzondermoskeletal, such as skin condition acanthosis nigricans, which is characterized by dark and thick skin in our body folds, changes in the vertebrae on x-rays, and the probable development of noncancerous cementomas during adulthood..
10954	The rare medical condition called Crow-Fukase syndrome is also called POEMS syndrome after the clinical features that distinguish it from other diseases - Polyneuropathy (peripheral nerve damage), Organomegaly (abnormal enlargement of organs), Endocrinopathy (damage to hormone-producing glands)/Edema, M-protein (an abnormal antibody) and Skin abnormalities (including hyperpigmentation and hypertrichosis).
10955	The precipitation of the proteins called cryoglobulins in low temperature can cause serious health problems for some people. The condition is called cryoglobulinemia and it occurs when there are huge deposits of cryoglobuline in the blood, damaging organs and causing illness. It could be linked to multiple myeloma, liver disease, lymphoma, and infection. More women are afflicted with the disease.
10956	Cryptococcosis is an infection arising from the inhalation of the soil contaminated with fungus Cryptococcus neoformans. It is characterized by pulmonary infection, meningitis, viscera, pneumonia as well other organ disorders. Disorders such as AIDS and Hodgkin's disease increase the risk of acquiring cryptococcosis. In fact, it used to be a rare infection before the start of AIDS epidemic.
10957	Cryptorchidism, also referred to as undescended testicle, is a condition in which the testes did not completely descend into the scrotum.
10958	Cryptosporidiosis is a disease of the gastrointestinal tract characterized predominantly by diarrhea usually starting when a tiny one-celled parasite called Cryptosporidium enter the body and travel and hollow out in the small intestinal wall and force out of the body by means of feces.
10959	Cryptosporidium infection is a gastrointestinal disease.
10960	The cubital tunnel syndrome is a nerve disorder wherein stiffness and pain occurs in the cubital tunnel, or the ulnar nerves. Pain is severely felt at the back part of the elbow, which is commonly known as the funny bone.
10961	Currarino's triad is characterized as a complex malformation that typically consist of anorectal and sacral defects as well as the formation presacral mass. Imaging would often show some sacral bony malformations and may be associated to some urological abnormalities of the neurogenic bladder or vesicouretereric reflux.
10962	Cushing's Syndrome is also known by other medical terms such as hyperadrenocorticism and hypercortisolism, which is characterized as an endocrine disorder that is primarily caused by the high levels of cortisol in the patient's blood. There are a number of underlying causes and medical conditions that triggers Cushing's Syndrome such as ectopic adrenocorticotropic hormone, adrenal hyperplasia, and iatrogenic or use of steroid. This disease is also quite common among dogs and horses, often characterized as the deposition of fat in the body.
10963	Cutaneous anthrax was once known as a rather obscure disease is now a household name, largely owing to the media hype since it was used bioterrorism agents in the past. There are three different types of anthrax: gastronintestinal, inhalational and cutaneous. Anthrax is actually categorized as a zoonotic disease, which means, it mainly affects animals and not humans. This disease can be contracted through handling contaminated excrement from the infected animals.
10964	A cutaneous horn, is also medically known as cornu cutaneum, which primarily refers to a partcular appearance of skin lesions that is manifested by a cone-shaped protuberance that arises on the skin. This is usually caused by an overgrowth of the superficial layer of skin or the epidermis. Although it may appear as a lesion, a cutaneous horn is actually the reaction to the pattern of the skin and may overlie skin cancer.
10965	Cutaneous larva migrans or CLM,is a type of skin disorder that occurs among humans. Sometimes termed as ground itch pr creeping eruption, this disease is also known as sandworms in reference to the "fondness" of larvae for sandy soil.
10966	Cutaneous lupus erythematosus is categorized as a type of lupus that primarily involves the patient's skin but may also be a precursor to another systemic form of the disease. There are three different types of cutaneous lupus erythematosus: chronic lupus erythematosus, subacute lupus erythematosus and e types of cutaneous lupus erythematosus. Dark skinned women individuals are more prone to Cutaneous lupus erythematosus especially between ages 20-60.
10967	Cutaneous T-cell lymphoma is considered an extremely rare disease, and is usually occurs in people between the ages 40-60, primarily affecting the skin. This medical condition is caused by the uncontrollable development of within blood cells on the skin, which is known as T-cells. Among the most common types cutaneous T-cell lymphoma are Sezary syndrome and mycosis fungoides.
10968	Cutis laxa (CL) is an extremely rare disease that can either be acquired or inherited disorder of the connective tissue. This is characterized by marked inelasticity of the skin that usually hangs in folds. In both inherited and acquired cutis laxa, the internal organs may also be affected.
10969	Cutis marmorata telangiectatica congenita or CMTC is quite rare and uncommonly reported. This is categorized as congenital and sporadic cutaneous disorder that comes with the persistent telangiectasia, cutis marmorata and phlebectasia. This comes with ulcerations of the skin as well as cutaneous atrophy. Cutis marmorata telangiectatica congenital is also usually associated with several other congenital anomalies.
10970	Cutis rhomboidalis nuchae medically refers to the skin appearance after a long-term, as well as the prolonged sun exposure, resulting to damage of the skin. This usually occurs on the back of the neck.
10971	Cutis verticis gyrata (CVG) is considered as the medical descriptive term for a scalp condition that is characterized with furrows and convoluted folds that form from a thickened area of the scalp that resembles the cerebriform pattern.
10972	Cyclic neutropenia is categorized as a rare blood disorder that is characterized by some recurrent episodes of abnormally low white blood cell levels called neutrophils. These are primarily responsible for warding off infections as well as in destroying bacteria that may invade the body. In most cases, people with cyclic neutropenia suffer from recurrent infections.
10973	Cyclic vomiting syndrome is a chronic vomiting disorder having no identified cause. It is most common in children ages 3-7 years which they will outgrow in teenage years. But since it is recurring, it can occasionally happen in adults as well.
10974	Cyclospora infection is an infection of the intestine due to a one-celled parasite.
10975	Cyclothymia is also known by the medical term cyclothymic disorder. This disease is characterized by a mild type of bipolar disorder. Similar to bipolar disorder, cyclothymia is known as a chronic mood disorder that results to emotional highs and lows. Patients with this condition experience short periods of emotional ups believing they are on top of the world and followed by emotional downs that often leave them feeling suicidal and depressed.
10976	Cyclothymic disorder also called as cyclothymia, is a mild form of bipolar disorder; a chronic mood disorder causing emotional ups and downs. The condition is usually characterized by short episodes of emotional highs when feeling on top of the world followed by extremely low feeling that can possibly lead to hopelessness or suicide, if left uncontrolled.
10977	Cystathionine beta-synthase deficiency disease is a genetic metabolic disorder that involves the amino acid methionine.
10978	Cystic Fibrosis (CF) is a genetic disease common in Caucassians which directly affects the digestive system and the lungs and is considered life-threatening. Because of a defective gene called cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR), the mucus, digestive juices, sweat and saliva become thick and sticky, obstructing the passageways especially in the lungs and pancreas.
10979	Cystic Hygroma is a fluid filled sac that came about from an obstruction in the lymphatic system. It can either be single or multiple cysts found in the neck area. Cystic Hygroma can be congenital or it could develop at any time in a person's life.
10980	Cystinosis is categorized as an inherited disorder that affects chromosome 17, under which the amino acid cystine is not properly transported out of the patient's body cells. This would cause organ and tissue all damage throughout the body and may begin to manifest at any age, affecting both male and female. This mutated gene CTNS is an autosomal recessive, which means both parents are carrier of this gene resulting to the child to inherit to defective gene copies.
10981	Cystinuria is an type inherited metabolic disorder, where the natural reabsorption and filtration of amino acid, cystine, lysine and aginine by the patient's kidney are defective. This would cause the urine to contain elevated levels of cystine that causes the formation of kidney stones. This medical condition account to about 1% of kidney stones and usually occurs to 1 per every 7,000 people and are more common among Jews.
10982	Cystitis is a medical term used to characterize the inflammation of the bladder. Majority of the time, this inflammation is typically caused by some form of a bacterial infection, which may be commonly referred to as a urinary tract infection (UTI). This bladder infection often causes pain and discomfort and can even lead to serious health complications if infection reaches the kidneys.
10983	Interstitial cystitis or painful bladder syndrome is characterized by experiencing pain in your pelvis ranging from discomfort or mild burning to severe pain, letting you think that you have a urinary tract infection. The pressure or pain in your bladder awakens you, not letting you get a good night's sleep and the first thing you will do is find the nearest toilet location.
10984	A cystocele, sometimes called prolapsed bladder is characterized when the wall between a woman's bladder and the vagina stretches and weakens, letting the bladder bulge into the vagina.
10985	Cytomegalic inclusion disease is an infection or condition resulting from a form of herpes virus called 'cytomegalovirus'. This virus leads to cell enlargement of a number of organs, as well as the growth of 'inclusion bodies' in the nucleus or cytoplasm of the cells. A trademark of this infection is the episodic recurrence of symptoms all through life, due to its virus cycles of latency periods and active virus.
10986	Cytomegalovirus is a disease infecting cells and causing them to be enlarged. Individuals are typically infected when they're two years old or through teenage years. A lot of people become infected with CMV and do not even realize they have it. The disease doesn't cause chronic problems, but they do cause troubles in newborns if their mothers become infected during pregnancy.
10987	Usually described as interstitial pneumonia or pneumonitis, such lung disease is caused by the perinatally acquired cytomegalovirus (CMV). Lung cysts in newborns are diagnosed as including CMV infection.
10988	Marked by itching and excessive flaking of the scalp, many people have this chronic scalp disorder called dandruff. It may be embarrassing to have dandruff which is surprisingly persistent, it is not contagious and is rarely serious.
10989	Dandy fever is another name for dengue fever. It is a contagious epidemic disease caused by mosquito bites of two species under the genus Aedes.
10990	Dandy-Walker syndrome is defined as a brain deformity that involves the 'cerebellum' and the fluid that fills the space surrounding it. The malformation happens before birth; thus, it's submitted as a 'congenital malformation'. The syndrome is characterized by enlargement of the brain's fourth ventricle, complete or partial absence of cerebellar vermis, and a formation of cyst near the skull's internal base. There is also increased fluid size and pressure increase in the fluid spaces around the brain.
10991	Darier's disease is defined as a genetic disease or inherited dermatitis characterized by 'dark crusty patches' on skin, which sometimes contain pus. These patches are known as keratosis follicularis or keratotic papules. Although complications are uncommon, the disease can cause bacterial sepsis, as well as Kaposi's varicelliform eruption.
10992	Prolonged nighttime sleep or recurrent episodes of excessive daytime sleepiness are among the characteristics of Hypersomnia.
10993	De lange syndrome, or Cornelia de Lange syndrome (CdLS), is a rare congenital disorder that affects a person's physical features and developmental processes.
10994	De Quervain's tenosynovitis is characterized by the abnormal pain experience on the hand and wrist area. The pain is generally caused by the swelling of the sheath of tendons located on the thumb side of the wrist. This causes the pain and discomfort for every turn of the wrist, clenching the fist and grasping anything.
10995	De Sanctis-Cacchione syndrome is a very uncommon disorder distinguished by eye and skin manifestations of XP or xeroderma pigmentosum, occurring in involvement with mental retardation, neurological abnormalities, underdeveloped ovaries or testes, and abnormally short stature or dwarfism.
10996	Deafblindness is the condition characterized by a combination of hearing and vision losses, which causes difficulty in communication, access to information, and mobility. Causes of the condition are classified into two categories; congenital and acquired. Deafblindness can be acquired through illness, injury or due to old age. Congenital blindness can be a result of prenatal infection, chromosomal syndromes like Down's syndrome, birth trauma or heavy alcohol and drug use of a pregnant mother.
10997	Decubitus ulcer is the medical term used to describe bed sores. It can be treated by constant cleaning of the wounds.
10998	Deep skin infection, or cellulites, is the inflammation of the connective tissues underneath the skin. It is a bacterial infection brought about by exogenous bacteria due to previous wounds, bites, sores or lacerations. This infection, when not treated, may lead to necrotizing fasciitis, wherein the bacteria eats away the affected tissue resulting to amputation.
10999	Deep vein thrombosis is a medical condition characterized by blood clot formation in any deep veins of the body; usually occurring on the leg. The condition is considered as a serious condition because there is a possibility that it may lead to pulmonary embolism caused by a blood clot that had travelled and reached the lung.
11000	Deerfly fever is otherwise known as Tularemia which is characterized by a rare and infectious disease that primarily attacks the eyes, skin and lungs. There are less than 200 reported cases of this disease annually, and is known to affect mostly the south-central and western states. Deerfly fever spreads through humans though a number of routes, including direct exposure and insect bites from an infected animal.
11001	Degenerative joint disease, also known as osteoarthritis, is the inflammation of the joints. It affects various joints such as the back, neck, knees, fingers, and hips. The disease occurs mostly people over the age of 45.
11002	Degenerative nerve disease, also known as amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, is a progressive fatal illness that affects the motor neurons that control the body's skeletal muscles. It is characterized by paralysis and weakening of the voluntary muscles. It is also known as Lou Gehrig's disease.
11003	Degos disease is an uncommon systematic disease that involves the medium and small sized arteries, wherein these arteries become blocked. The disease typically progresses into two stages. The first stage is characterized by the appearance of distinguishing skin lesions that may stay for some time, ranging from a few weeks to several years. Lesions inside the small intestines often mark the second stage, and other organs can also be affected.
11004	Dejerine-Sottas disease is an uncommon genetic motor and sensory polyneuropathy that manifests progressive effects on mobility. The peripheral nerves thicken and enlarge, leading to weakness of the muscle. The progress of this disease is irregular, as well as frequently accompanied by numbness, pain, weakness, and a burning, prickling, or tingling sensations in one's legs.
11005	A condition in which the muscles of your stomach don't function normally is called gastroparesis or delayed gastric emptying. Usually, strong muscular contractions propel food through the digestive tract, and if the muscles in the wall of the stomach work poorly or not all, it would prevent the stomach from emptying properly and therefore, letting one would experience delayed gastric emptying.
11006	The word "delirium" typically hints a state of feverish ecstasy that is believed to fuel some sort of artistic creation or some form of spiritual awakening, it can actually be clearly defined as a form of medical condition. Delirium is basically characterized a decline in attention, mental clarity and awareness that is often known to be triggered by a serious illness.
11007	Dementia senilis, or senile dementia, is a mental illness common among the elderly. It is characterized by loss of attention span and short-term memory. It is considered an effect of Alzheimer's disease.
11008	Demodicidosis is an infection that's parasitic, caused by Demodex mite that normally lives without risk in hair follicles, particularly those on one's facial area. This mite may cause manifestations in immunocompromised people. The mites implant themselves in one's skin or hair follicles. An infestation of an abnormally huge number of this mite, typically associated with improper skin cleansing, can have a 'rosacea-like' appearance.
11009	Demyelinating disease is defined as any type of nervous system condition wherein the neurons' protective covering, called myelin sheath, is damaged. This causes impairment in the transmission of signals within affected nerves, which in turn results to damage in movement, cognition, sensation, or other bodily functions, depending on the nerves involved. Some common demyelinating disease includes multiple sclerosis, optic neuritis, devic disease, acute disseminated encephalomyelitis, transverse myelitis, and adrenomyeloneuropathy.
11010	Dengue fever is defined as a disease involving four connected viruses being multiplied by a specific mosquito species. The fever ranges from severe to mild; mild dengue results to rash, joint and muscle pain, and high fever. Its severe forms can additionally result to sudden blood pressure drop, severe bleeding, and death.
11011	Dengue hemorrhagic fever is characterized by a severe and even potentially deadly form of infection that is spread by certain types of mosquitoes.
11012	Dent's disease, also known as Dent Disease, is a rare X-linked recessive condition that is hereditary. It affects the Kidney and is one of the many causes of Fanconi syndrome. It is characterized by hypercalciuria, tubular proteinuria, nephrocalcinosis, chronic renal failure and calcium nephrolithiasis. Because it it only associated with the X-chromosome, this disease is most common to males. Studies show that more men (9 out of 15) suffer from this disease compared to women (1 out of ten) at an average age of 47
11013	Dental Fluorosis is a condition that affects the teeth caused by excessive intake of flouride. It is characterized by yellowish color of the teeth, presence of white spots, and discolorations like brown spots. It can also cause pitting and is often affects young teeth that has not yet erupted into the oral cavity.
11014	Dental plaque is the hardened yellowish coating on the teeth caused by the food people eat. Dental plaque contains bacteria, which can cause tooth decay. The plaque can be removed by constant oral hygiene and regular cleaning done by a dentist.
11015	Dentinogenesis imperfecta is a disorder of tooth development brought about by abnormal genetic mutations in the DSPP gene. It causes discolorations in teeth and development of abnormally weak dentin causing teeth to break easily, and break easily as well. It is otherwise called as hereditary Opalescent Dentin. Researchers have identified three types of this disease.
11016	Depersonalization Disorder (DPD) is a special type of dissociative disorder where an afflicted individual suffers from recurrent and resistant feelings of depersonalization. This is characterized by a sense of automation as well as the feeling of disconnection from the body, often making it difficult to relate to reality.
11017	Depression in children is a form of emotional disorder that affects the child's psychological, emotional and social behaviors. This kind of depression sets the pace towards the child's outlook in life, and can be the cause of his erratic behavior upon reaching adulthood.
11018	Depression in older people is a stage where an adult, who has gone past his prime years, experiences anxiety and long-term sadness due to a series of reflections of the things that happened in the past.
11019	Dercum's disease is also known as Ander's disease or Adiposis dolorosa. It is a rare chronic disease associated with multiple painful fatty tissues during adult stage and usually affects obese women.
11020	Dermal herpetiformis is a disorder of the skin, chronic in nature and is characterized as extremely itchy rash. Otherwise known as Duhring's disease, this condition is associated to a person's sensitivity to gluten in cereals specifically the intestine. The rashes is consist of papules and a fluid-filled blister or vesicle. It usually is common on men and women in their twenties. It is also often connected to celiac disease which is an autoimmune disorder of the small bowel.
11021	Hugely affecting your legs that may appear to have red and often itchy rash on the lower part of your body is a disorder called statis dermatitis. It often occurs after a long-term swelling of the legs that could be caused by poor blood circulation.
11022	Nipple dermatitis is characterized itchiness as well as the soreness of one or even both nipples.
11023	Nummular dermatitis is categorized as a particular form of eczema, or what is known as a type of atopic dermatitis, which is characterized by seemingly coin-shaped and raised bumps on the surface of the skin. These growths are often scaly.
11024	Perioral dermatitis is characterized as a type of facial rash that usually tends to occur just around the mouth region. Most skin condition manifests as red and often slightly bumpy or scaly in texture. It can gradually spread up around the nose area, and even move up to the eyes.
11025	Dermatofibroma is a lesion or a dermal tumor, mostly benign, laid ot by fibroblasts. It is characterized by hard papules in different colors ranging from brown to tan. In some cases, Dermatofibroma can become itchy and tender. It is also believed to be a reaction of the skin to previous injuries. Some are rare malignant fibrohistocytic tumors whuch are usually deep penetrating.
11026	Lightly scratching your skin that may cause red lines on the area where you've scratched is a condition called dermatographia. It can be uncomfortable though it's not serious. Upon scratching, the skin cells are overly sensitive to minor injury with this kind of disorder.
11027	Dermatographic urticaria is a disorder of the skin characterized by swelling of the skin when rubbed with dull objects. The swelling is caused by mast cells in the surface of the skin causing the release of histamines without antigens because of weak membranes that surrounds the mast cells. This disease is also called dermatographism or skin writing. This is not a life threatening disease.
11028	Dermatomyosis is a disease of the connective tissues associated with muscles and skin inflammation. Juvenile dermatomyositis affects young children often associated with pink patches in the knuckles, abnormal and painful erection of the penis that can last for a long period of time, and groton's papules. It is one type of autoimmune disease of the connective tissue which is related to polymyositis characterized by many inflammations of the muscles, and the related disease that attacks the arm and leg muscles called Sporadic Inclusion Body Myositis.
11029	Dermatopathia pigmentosa reticularis is a congenital disorder most common in women. It is a rare type ectodermal dysplasia disorder. Although most cases are reported in Europe, there is not enough evidence to say that the disease is associated with any race.
11030	Dermatophytids are skin lesions and erruptions that is occurs as an allergic reaction to the ringworm infections. These lesions, however are free of fungal forms and are generally vesicular, and papular in some cases. Dermatophytes often occur in the feet and hands. It also resembles erythema nodosum
11031	Dermatophytosis is a skin disorder caused by a parasitic fungus called Dermatphyte. Dermatophyte feeds on keratin that usually found in the ectoderm or the outer layer of the skin, nails and hair.
11031	Dermatophytosis, similarly known as athlete's foot is a common fungal infection among many people. It usually affects spaces in between your toes but it can spread to your soles, toenails and the sides of your feet.
11032	DES syndrome is a term used to describe the abnormalities suffered by an infant due to diethylstilbestrol (DES) medications the mother used to take during pregnancy to avoid miscarriage.
11033	Desmoid tumor is a tendon-like benign fibrous neoplasms. It originates from the musculoaponeurotic structures found in the entire body. It appears as firm overgrowths of tissues, usually fibrous, locally aggressive, well differentiated and infiltrative. Other terms used for this disorder are deep fibromatosis, nonmentastasizing fibrosarcoma or aggressive fibromatosis. It mostly grows from the abdomen and rectus muscle after giving birth or in scars from cuts during abdominal surgery. These tumors may also grow in bone muscles.
11034	Also known as DSRCT, it is a very aggressive tumor that occurs rarely, a type of cancer that always grows in the abdomen and spreads locally to the lymph nodes. It can also spread to other parts of the body like the lungs, bones, and liver, chest walls, spinal cord, large and small intestine, skull, bladder, brain, ovaries, pelvis and testicles. This is most common in males especially in the young adolescent stage. This is a life threatening disease. This tumor is also called desmoplastic small round blue cell tumor, desmoplastic cancer, intraabdominal desmoplastic small round blue cell tumor or desmoplastic sarcoma.
11035	Developmental delay is a disorder in which a child goes through an abnormally slower process of development than expected. His mental and physical skills develop very slowly. This condition is also called cerebral palsy.
11036	Devic syndrome is an autoimmune disease that attacks the protein of the central nervous system which is called aquaporin. This is a condition in which the fatty covering of the spinal cord is destroyed and the nerves in the eyes are affected causing sight loss and pain. A form of multi sclerosis that is rare and is rapid and severe. Patients having this disease will experience paralysis at different degrees.
11037	Dextrocardia or Dextrocadia Situs Inversus is a medical term use to describe the location of the heart which is in the right chest instead being normally at the left side. Patients with this condition may grow and develop normally and live an equally normal life if there are no complications brought about by the heart's position. Limitations only come from other defects of the heart, lungs or chest. If there are no defects in the heart, this condition doesn't require surgery or any medication.
11038	Dextrocardia with situs inversus is a rare state where the heart's apex is positioned abnormally towards the right side, other than the heart the liver and the spleen are reversed too. This condition is not a life threatening disease and most patients are capable of living a normal life.
11039	Diabetest insipidus is a condition wherein a patient losses a lot of water through the diluted urine. It cause severe dehydration and a patient may feel the urge to drink lots of water due to the very large volume of liquid that is urinated. This disease is rare and may occur in young children.
11040	Diabetes mellitus, popularly known as "diabetes" is a chronic disease. It is associated with very high levels of the glucose sugar present in our blood. There are two mechanisms for diabetes, patients may experience either of the two to suffer from this disease. The first is that there is not enough production of insulin produced by the pancreas as a result, blood glucose level are lowered or type 1. The second is that the cells is not sensitive enough to the action of insulin or type 2.
11041	Diabetis insulin dependent is also known as diabetes mellitus type 1. This is a chronic disorder of our system's failure to produce inadequate amount of insulin. Characteristics of this disease is loss of the beta cells which are responsible for producing insulin. These cells are found in the islets of Langerhans in our pancreas. This loss leads to insulin deficiency. There is no known measure to prevent this disease. Affected people mostly are healthy when this disease occurs. The cells sensitivity and responsiveness to insulin are not abnormal. This type of diabetes can affect both children or adults, although it was previously called "juvenile diabetes" as it usually affects children.
11042	Angiopathy refers to any disease associated with the blood vessels or the lymph vessels. When angiopathy is caused by diabetes, it is called diabetic angiopathy. Similar to most complications brought about by diabetes, diabetic angiopathy is primarily due to hyperglycemia or the high levels of blood sugar known to us as glucose. This disease can occur in any part of the body where the effect of high glucose level resulted to clogged up due to build up of plaque in the inner walls of the vessels. There are two types of this disease, macroangiopathy or microangiopathy.
11043	Having a dangerously low blood sugar (hypoglycemia) and dangerously high blood sugar (hyperglycemia) when you have diabetes can lead to a diabetic coma which is a life-threatening diabetes complication and when left untreated can be fatal.
11044	Diabetic dermopathy is also commonly known as shin spots or the pigmented pretibial patches. This is a skin condition that is usually found to develop on the lower legs of people who have diabetes. This medical condition is often the result of changes in the small blood vessel, which are primarily responsible in supplying the skin blood products.
11045	Diabetic hyperosmolar syndrome is characterized by an abnormally high blood sugar, ranging up to 600 milligrams per deciliter. In this case, the blood becomes syrupy and thick. This excess sugar in the blood passes on to the urine, which then triggers the filtering process, which will draw a great amount of fluid from the body.
11046	A serious complication of diabetes develops when you have too little insulin in your body, and is called diabetic ketoacidosis, for without enough insulin, glucose can't enter your cells for energy. Your body begins to break down fat for energy and your blood sugar level will rise, and if left untreated may let you lose consciousness.
11047	Diabetic nephropathy or nephropatia diabetica is also called Kimmelstiel-Wilson syndrome. Another term is intercapillary glomerulonephritis. It is a kidney disease, which is progressive in nature and is caused by angiopathy of the capillaries in kidney glomeruli. It occurs because of diabetes mellitus that has been in the patient for a long period of time already.
11048	Diabetic neuropathies is a microvascular trauma that involves capillaries and venoules that provides blood and nutrients to the nerves, it is cause by diabetes melllitus.
11049	A complication resulting from damage to the blood vessels of the light sensitive tissue at the back of the eye (retina) is called diabetic retinopathy, which at first my cause only mild vision problems or no symptoms at all.
11050	Diamond-Blackfan Disease (DBA) is also called congenital erythroid aplasia that is present in infancy. That is caused by low red blood cell counts or anemia.
11051	After solid foods are added to your baby's diet, when your baby is taking antibiotics or when breast-feeding mothers eat certain foods are the common factors for babies to have diaper rash - a common form of inflamed skin (dermatitis).
11052	Congenital diaphragmatic hernia is a collective term for different birth defects brought about by congenital factors which involves the abnormal development of the baby's diaphragm.
11053	Diarrhoea in children is a condition where children suffer from loose bowel movement. Watery, semisolid stool is released frequently during the onset of the condition. When not treated, this can lead to dehydration.
11054	Diastrophic dysplasia or DD is considered to be an uncommon kind of dwarfism. Occuring only once out of 500,000 births (in the U.S.), it is the top three among all types of dwarfism.
11055	Dibasic aminoaciduria type 2 also called lysinuric protein intolerance (LPI) or familial protein intolerance is an amino acid transport disorder. The excretion of cationic amino acid (composed of ornithine, arginine, and lysine) in the kidney is increase. Cationic amino acid is a kind of amino acid does not absorb well in the intestine. Deficiency of arginine and ornithine stops the urea cycle which will cause hyperammonemia after protein rich intake
11056	Diffuse astrocytomas are adult brain tumors that develop on the brain tissues. They grow slowly and are diagnosed only when the cysts are already in the advanced stages. Young adults are prone to this kind of tumor. It can be diagnosed by CT scan and MRI, and can be removed by surgery, chemotherapy and radiation therapy.
11057	Diffuse idiopathic skeletal hyperostosis (DISH) is the hardening of the bony ligaments that are attached to one's spine.
11058	Diffuse parenchymal lung disease (DPLD) also known as Interstitial lung disease, is refers to obstructive airway diseases of the lungs. It affects the alveolar epithelial lining, pulmonary capillary epithelium and its basement mambrane.
11059	DiGeorge sequence (DGS), is an abnormal developmental condition that involves the third and fourth pharyngeal pouches.
11060	DiGeorge Syndrome also known as 22q11.2 deletion syndrome, Velocardiofacial Syndrome and Strong Syndrome is a disorder known by total or partial absence or defective chromosome 22.
11061	Dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase deficiency is an autosomal recessive metabolic disorder. It is characterized by an absence or a significantly decreased activity of the dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase, which is an enzyme involved in the metabolic process of uracil and thymine. Individuals having this condition may develop toxicity, which may lead to death, after their exposure to 5-fluorouracil. 5-fluorouracil is a drug that is used in chemotherapy to treat of cancer.
11062	Dilated cardiomyopathy (DCM) also known as congestive cardiomyopathy, is refer to enlargment and weakening of the heart that leads to decrease cardiac output and affects other body organs. DCM is one of the cause of congestive heart failure (CHF). This condition also occurs in yound adults and children.
11063	Dimitiri disease, also known as Struge-Weber syndrome, is a congenital disorder characterized by excessive bundles of blood vessels and calcium deposits in the brain. Seizures and unusual facial birthmarks can be found to persons in this condition. Angiomas can also develop inside the brain, face, eyes and jaws.
11064	Diphallia is also known as penile duplication (PD), dophallic terata or diphallasparatus. It is a disorder of male infant born with two or more penis. This disorder commonly accompanied with congenital anomalies like renal and anorectal duplication. A Diphalilic patient have high risk to develop spina bifida, a congenital defect that has incomplete closure of the empbryonic neural tube that allow spinal cord to protrude through the opening. It also has higher death rate because of its complicated renal and colorectal structures that results infection.
11065	Diptheria is a communicable disease of upper respiratory tract it is caused by an anaerobic Gram- positive bacterium called Corynebacterium diphtheriae. it is spread through direct contact. Vaccine of this bacteria is recommended for children after four weeks of birth, it has 3 dosage with 3 weeks interva. It also recommended to travellers. Incubation period of Diphtheria is from 2 to 5 days.
11066	Discitis is the term used to describe the infection of the invertebral disc space causing severe back pain. Symptoms of the infection include stiffness and immobility of the spine to move. The exact causes for the disease are unknown, but studies show that it is linked with hematogenous seeding of certain harmful organisms. Discitis is treated with antibiotics and cast support for the back. it can as well be diagnosed by X-rays, CT scan and MRI.
11067	Discoid Lupus Erythematosus or Systemic Lupus Erythamatosus is a systemic disorder cause by autoimmune response of the body. The immune system fights against own body cells that leads to inflammation of the tissues that affects different parts of the body. It occurs in unexpected times, this period is called "flares".
11068	A condition in which young children develop normally until age 3 or 4 but then demonstrate a severe loss of communication, social and other skills is called a childhood disintegrative disorder. It is also known as Heller's syndrome.
11069	Your shoulders are prone to injury as they have the ability to move in any directions and they are your body's most mobile joints. An injury in which your upper arm bone pops out of the cup-shaped socket that's part of your shoulder blade is called a dislocated shoulder.
11070	A point where two or more of your bones come together is called a joint. An injury to your joint in which the ends of your bones are forced from their normal positions is called a dislocation. As a result from the injury which temporarily immobilizes and deforms your joint you may experience sudden and severe pain.
11071	A chronic illness that causes altered perceptions of the world is called schizophrenia and disorganized schizophrenia is a subtype of such disorder. People who have disorganized schizophrenia display grossly disorganized behavior, disorganized thinking and an absent or inappropriate emotional expression.
11072	Dissecting aneurysm is also called an aortic dissection, characterized as a serious condition in which a tear develops in the inner layer of the aorta, the large blood vessel branching off the heart.
11073	Dissociative Amnesia is characterized by the pervasive loss of one's memory on a significant personal information. Unlike other forms of amnesia, in this case, the person is unconsciously blocking out a particular traumatic or stressful memory and does not result from any medical trauma.
11074	Distal Myopathy are also known as distal muscular dysrtophy is a hereditary disease that causes weakness of muscuskeletal system at the distal area, it includes the hands and the feet .There are Different types of distal myopathy: the miyoshi myopathy, limp-girdle muscular dystrophy, welander distal myopathy and distal myopathy with anterior tibial onset.
11075	Diverticulitis is a very common disease in the digestive system, specifically in the large intestine. This disorder developed from diverticulosis involving the formation of diverticula on the colon particularly on the outside part. It occurs if one of these many pouches or diverticula swells.
11075	Diverticulitis is a digestive disorder that characterized by inflammation of the large intestine wall. It is a complication of diverticulosis, an out pouching intestine lining outside the colon.
11076	One of the most common reasons why older adults visit their doctors is due to dizziness. Your brain processes a variety of information from your nervous system, your eyes and your inner ears, keeping your sense of balance. But if the brain can't process signals from all of these locations, or if your sensory systems aren't functioning properly, or if the messages are contradictory, then you may experience dizziness and loss of balance.
11077	Dizziness is common sensation characterized by unsteadiness and a moving vision of one's surroundings. Children, like adults, may experience dizziness every once in a while.
11078	Ichthyosis vulgaris is a disorder tha occurs in the skin causing it to be dry, with scaly appearance. It is considered to be the most common form of skin disorder (ichthyosis) that affects one in every 250 people. Because of this, it is also called common ichthyosis. Some refer to it as fish skin disease because of its scaly characteristics. Usually, it is an autosomal inherited disease and often dominant. Often times, it is also associated with filaggrin. Although there is another version of this disease which is non-heritable but does not occur often. It is called acquired ichthyosis vulgaris.
11079	Double Outlet Right Ventricle or DORV often coincides with a defect in the ventricular septal area (VSD), which is characterized by an opening in the heart septum which is not normally there. This allows the blood to pass in between the right and the left ventricles. In DORV, a VSD is helpful since it allows the blood carrying the oxygen from the left ventricle to pass to the right ventricle to other parts of the body but these blood mix with other blood poor in oxygen. As effect, the heart must work very hard in order to maintain proper and adequate circulation.
11080	Double uterus or uterus didelphys is a condition characterized when the tubes (which start out as two small tubes in a female fetus) don't join completely to create one hollow organ which is the uterus, but instead each one develops into a separate cavity as the fetus develops.
11081	A vaginal douche is device used to stream fluid in or out of the vagina, for medical or hygienic purposes. Some women use a vaginal douche to insert medications to treat vaginal diseases, or to stream water out of the vagina cavity. It is also used to stream menstrual flow during intercourse as well as a birth control method. However, the vaginal douche can also bring about certain bacterial infections, especially when it is not cleansed properly.
11082	Down syndrome otherwise known as trisomy 21 is a disorder caused by the presence of an extra 21st chromosome. This disorder was termed as chromosome 21 trisomy in 1959 by JÎ˜râŒ me Lejeune. It is characterized by major and minor structural differences. Down syndrome is always associated with impairments of the cognitive ability and the physical growth. Facial appearance also is different. This disorder can be known even during pregnancy or right at birth.
11083	Doxorubicin-induced cardiomyopathy is a condition that occurs as a reaction of the Doxorubicin. In this case, it targets the heart.
11084	Dracunculiasis also more commonly called and known by people as Guinea worm disease (GWD), is a kind of infection that is caused by the parasitic organism Dracunculus medinensis. It is also alternately known as "Guinea worm" or "Medina worm" or "fiery serpent" in English. The name reflects the word, which is Latin, Dracunculus. This means "little dragon".
11085	Dressler's syndrome is the medical term that refers to the health complication that typically occurs after a heart surgery or heart attack. This is characterized by the inflammation of the pericardium or the sac that surrounds the heart. This is primarily caused by the reaction of the immune system after weeks or several days of contracting heart injury.
11086	Dropsy refers to the inflammation of the tissues due to accumulation of excess fluids. This condition is more popularly known as edema.
11087	Drug eruption is characterized by an adverse reaction to medication. This is known as the undesirable and unintended reaction to certain drugs, causing side effects. In such cases, the skin is the most common affected area of the body and often forms rashes and other visible skin conditions.
11088	Drug-induced liver disease is the term used to describe liver illnesses brought about by certain prescribed medications, vitamins, hormones and recreational drugs.
11089	Dry mouth is also known as xerostomia, characterized by the abnormal lack of saliva resulting to the dryness of the mouth. This condition is quite common and can be a nuisance since it generally affects the sense of taste as well as the health of the teeth. An important reminder for people who regularly experience such condition is to seek medical help and not just simply ignore it.
11090	Dry skin is also known by a medical term xerosis, which is ordinarily not considered to be a serious problem. However, in most cases it can be rather unsightly or uncomfortable as it is known to shrivel plump skin cells creating wrinkles and fine lines.
11091	Dry socket is a form of dental condition that usually occurs when the site of the tooth extraction has dislodged the blood clot, thereby exposing the nerves and bones. This causes a more intensified pain. This dental complication is quite common after tooth extraction.
11092	Duane syndrome or DS is a very rare, congenital disorder that affects the eye movement. It is ofte times characterized by the eye's inability to turn out. It is named after Alexander Duane who made a very comprehensive discussion of the disorder back in 1905. Other terms referring to this condition also include Congenital retraction syndrome, Eye Retraction Syndrome, Duane's Retraction Syndrome or DR syndrome, Retraction Syndrome, and Stilling-Turk-Duane Syndrome.
11093	Dubin-Johnson syndrome is a disorder usually autosomal and recessive. This condition causes an increase of bilirubin without elevation of the liver enzymes ALT and AST. This condition is often associated with the inability of hepatocytes to secrete produced conjugated bilirubin to the bile in the liver. It can be diagnosed in early infancy. Building up of biliburin in the bloodstrean cause yellowish color of the eye and skin.
11094	Dubowitz syndrome is a very rare genetic disorder. It is often characterized by microcephaly, slow to very retarded growth and a rather unusual facial appearance like having small or round or even triangular shaped with a pointed chin with either a broad or wide-tipped nose, and eyes which are usually wide-set and drooping eyelids. It was first described by English physician Victor Dubowitz in 1965. Majority of cases are from the Russia, United States, and Germany. It also appears to have an equal affect to different ethnicities and even genders.
11095	is a form of muscular dystrophy that is characterized by decreasing muscle mass and progressive loss of muscle function in male children
11096	Ductal carcinoma in situ (DCIS) is characterized by the abnormal multiplication of cells and the gradual formation of a growth within a milk duct of the breast. This medical condition may be difficult to detect. However, this is normally not a fatal condition since it is not a form of cancer but would still require a form of treatment.
11097	Dumping syndrome is characterized by a group of symptoms that are known to likely develop following a surgery that removes a certain part of the stomach. This is also known as the rapid emptying of the undigested contents in the stomach.
11098	is the congenital deficiency or complete closure of a part of the lumen of the duodenum.
11099	Dupuytren's contracture is characterized of a fixed flexion contracture of the person's limbs where the fingers tend to bend towards the base of the palm and cannot be fully extended or straightened naturally. It disorder is named in honor of a particular surgeon named Baron Guillaume Dupuytren, who was the first to define a surgical operation to correct the said affliction.
11100	Dust mites are microscopic organism that is somehow related to spiders and are usually found in most homes. These organisms are too small to see, and thrive in warm and humid environments. They feed on dead skin cells and nests in fabrics, beddings, furnishings and other dust-collecting objects. As the dust mites leave their residue such as decaying bodies and feces, it freely floats in the air and become an allergen. While not all people are allergic to dust mites, it can be a serious bother to people who are allergic to it.
11101	Dwarfism is a medical condition that refers to a condition of extremely small stature of an effected animal or even plant. Any known type of the marked human smallness is typically regarded as dwarfism in the much older, popular as well as the medical usage. The term as actually related to human beings that are often used to refer specifically to such forms of extreme shortness that is characterized by disproportionate body parts, which is believed to be typically due to a genetic disorder of the bone or cartilage development.
11102	is any disease or malfunction of the autonomic nervous system. This typically includes the postural orthostatic tachycardia syndrome orPOTS, neurocardiogenic syncope, pure autonomic failure as well as autonomic instability and several number of a much lesser-known disorders. Other type of disorders, such as the multiple system atrophy (Shy-Drager syndrome) as well as the chronic fatigue syndrome, both have dysautonomia as one of the many system malfunctions.
11103	Refers to a medical condition that is often a result from the series of changes in environment's pressure. There are various strenuous activities that are associated with pressure changes such as scuba diving, which is said to be the most frequently cited example, but pressure changes would also affect people who are working in pressurized environments such as the line workers that are assigned in the decompression areas along with people who move between different altitudes like in mountain climbing.
11104	Dysencephalia splachnocyxtica is not an ordinary ailment and is characterized by a severe genetic disorder that primarily affects the kidney along with some related cystic dysplasia, that causes the malfunctioning of the central nervous system and can eventaully create several hepatic developmental defects.
11105	Dysfibrinogenemia, familial is a type of familial medication condition that is not common. It is associated with an abnormal fibrinogen. Dysfibrinogenemia, familial involves several types and subtypes including Detroit, Wiesbaden, and Amsterdam dysfibrinogenemia.
11106	Dysgerminoma is considered to be the most common classification of malignant form of germ cell ovarian cancer. Dysgerminoma usually occurs in adolescence and early adult life; about 5% occur in pre-pubertal children. Dysgerminoma is known to be an extremely rare medical condition that usually occurs after age 50. Dysgerminoma occurs in both sections of the ovaries in more than 10% of patients and, in a further 10%, there is microscopic tumor found to have developed in the other ovary.
11107	Dysgraphia generally refers to extreme difficulty in handwriting. The condition is defined as a learning disability as a result of difficulty in expressing thoughts in writing and graphing.
11108	Dyshidrosis, is also known by another medical term called dyshidrotic eczema or pompholyx. This is characterized by a skin condition where there is a development of small, fluid-filled blisters that usually occur on the palms of the hands or the soles the feet, or even both.
11109	Dyskeratosis congenita is also referred to as Zinsser-Engman-Cole Syndrome. It is a type of rare disease that is characterized by a gradual failure of the bone marrow.
11110	Dyskinesia is a disorder that is characterized by involuntary movements such as in chorea or tic. Dyskinesia has been found out to be a mere symptom of various medical conditions and has a specific underlying cause.
11111	Dyskinesia, drug induced generally refers to the symptom that is caused by the high-dose or long term usage of the drug calleddopamine antagonists, which are usually used as antipsychotics medications and antiemetic metoclopramide. Such neuroleptic drugs are generally used to be prescribed to treat a number of different types of psychiatric disorders. Other forms of dopamine antagonists that are known to cause tardive dyskinesia are drugs used for the treat cases of gastrointestinal disorders along with some neurological disorders. Majority of the drugs that are not actually intended to affect the dopamine, such as the antidepressants, may be also the main cause of tardive dyskinesia. While there are newer atypical antipsychotics available in the market today such as olanzapine and risperidone that may initially appear to have lesser dystonic ill-effects, only clozapine has been proven to have a signioficantly lower risk of complications such as tardive dyskinesia in comparison to the older antipsychotics.
11112	Dyslexia is a specific learning difficulty that primarily involves reading and writing characterized by trouble in word-sounds processing and difficulty in short-term verbal memory; evidences are visible in spoken and written language. The condition is an impairment of the ability of the brain to translate written images received by the eyes into meaningful language.
11113	Dyslexia-dysgraphia-dyscalculia is a group of learning disorders that occur during a child's stages of development. Dyslexia pertains to the slow ability to understand a word or idea, dysgraphia is the difficulty to write, and dyscalculia meanwhile deals with the child's slow learning of mathematics and logical reasoning.
11114	Dyslexia in children is a learning disability in which a child finds difficulty in reading. When not detected early, this can develop into adult dyslexia.
11114	Dyslexia is a learning disability that affects children in various ways. The major areas covered by dyslexia are reading, spelling and writing problems.
11115	Dysmenorrhea is the medical term for menstrual cramps, referring to dull and throbbing pain felt in the lower abdomen just before or during menstrual periods.
11116	Dysmetabolic syndrome is a group of metabolic disorders in the blood serum that increases one's risk of heart disease. It is characterized by abnormal uric acid levels, factor imbalance and vascular problems.
11117	Dysmorphophobia is a psychiatric condition that is also known as body dysmorphic disorder or BDD. It has been defined over a century ago and is characterized by an intense fixation or focus on an invisible flaw in one's physical appearance.
11118	Dysmotility is a term used to describe gastrointestinal problems wherein the muscles do not function normally. Such diseases that result to dysmotility are gastroparesis, as well as intestinal obstruction.
11119	Dysostosis is the disorder that has something to do with the bone's development. In definition, it is defective formation of the bone, whether individual bones or collective ones.
11120	Dysparenia is the medical term to refer to painful intercourse that is mostly experienced by women. This is characterized by a recurrent pain in the genitals that is often persistent.
11121	Dyspepsia is the uncomfortable or burning sensation felt in the upper abdomen which is usually accompanied by nausea, bloating of the abdomen, belching and oftentimes vomiting.
11122	Nonulcer dyspepsia is a chronic disorder that affects the gastrointestinal system. This includes the esophagus, and the small intestine resulting to mild to serious discomfort of the abdomens. Nonulcer dyspepsia is often accompanied by nausea, belching and bloating.
11123	Dysphagia is the medical term that denotes persistent difficulty in swallowing usually occurring at any age but is most common to occur in older adults.
11124	Dysphasia is a learning disorder that affects language comprehension. People in this condition have problems in communicating with others, such as having trouble expressing their thoughts through words.
11125	Dysplastic nevi also called Clark's nevi and atypical moles are moles that are regarded as precancerous moles and have the tendency to turn into melanoma instead of regular moles. They are generally larger, irregular and have differences in color that may range from pink to dark brown; flat with some areas elevated above the surface of the skin.
11126	A dysplastic nevus syndrome is characterized as an atypical mole that usually stands out from the ordinary moles, with some indistinct borders and larger than any common mole. The color of these moles also varies from dark brown to pink, and are usually flat. Dysplastic nevus grows in any surface of the skin but has been found to more common on men's trunk and women's calves.
11127	Dyspraxia is a condition characterized by the brain's inability to process information resulting in messages not being properly addressed or transmitted ; can greatly affect planning what to do and how to do it. The condition is also known as Developmental Coordination Disorder (DCD), Motor Learning Difficulties, and Perceptuo-Motor Dysfunction. It was formerly termed as Clumsy Child Syndrome and Minimal Brain Damage.
11128	Dysrhythmias are also known as tuberous sclerosis, which is categorized as a very rare form of genetic disease that causes growth of benign tumors in several parts of the body. The most common areas of growth include the brain, skin and kidneys.
11129	Dysthymia is more popularly known as depression , which can conjure up a number of meanings - from simple passing moods of discouragement or sadness of a deeper condition of some inconsolable misery that can even be accompanied with suicidal thoughts. Dysthymia is regarded as a serious clinical disorder as it is known a condition that could interfere the patient's social and family life, work and even physical health.
11130	Dysthymic disorder or dysthymia is a chronic condition marked by symptoms of depression or lack of interest in activities that were thought to be enjoyable before; however the condition is less severe than a major depression.
11131	Dystonia is categorized as type of a neurological movement disorder characterized by sustained contractions of the muscle that causes some repetitive movements, twisting or abnormal postures. The type disorder may be genetic or may also be caused by some other factors such as physical trauma, birth-related, poisoning, infection or some sort of reaction to certain drugs.
11132	Cervical dystonia is characterized by a painful condition wherein the muscles of the neck contract involuntarily. This causes the head to turn or twist to one side. Most often this condition causes the repetitive jerky motion of the head.
11133	Dystrophia myotonica is categorized as an extremely rare genetic disorder that is characterized by muscle atrophy, myotonia, hypogonadism and cataracts. This is primarily caused by a multi-system, autonomic dominant disorder that can significantly affect the skeletal muscles that largely affects the central nervous system as well as other body parts.
11134	Eagle-Barrett syndrome, also known as the prune belly syndrome, is a rare disease characterized by impaired abdominal muscles and underdeveloped parts of the urinary tract.
11135	Eale's disease is categorized as an idiopathic obliterative vasculopathy that typically involves and affects the peripheral retina among young adults. The clinical findings for Eale's disease is primarily characterized by some avascular areas located in the retina periphery, the dilation of the capillary channels, as well as spontaneous chorioretinal scars.
11136	Ear infections are known to be among the common illnesses that occur during early childhood. In fact, statistics show that about 3 out of four children experienced ear infection by the age of three.
11137	A ruptured eardrum is usually characterized by a hole or tears in the eardrum, which interrupts the natural hearing process and cause impaired hearing. Aside from that the eardrum also acts a barrier against bacteria and foreign materials from entering the ear. Hence, a rupture eardrum can make a person highly susceptible to ear infections.
11138	Early menopause refers to the loss of the normal function of the ovaries before a woman reaches the age of 40. This condition is brought about by the failure of the ovaries to produce enough number of estrogen hormones, which often leads to infertility.
11139	Early puberty is characterized by the rapid growth of the muscles and bones as well as premature changes in the size and shape of the body. This condition is often more prevalent among girls than boys.
11140	Earwax blockage is the obstruction of the ear canal with cerumen. Cerumen or popularly known as earwax is part of the body's natural defenses that protects the ear canal by trapping dirt and slowing the growth of bacteria.
11141	Emotional eating, more popularly known as bulimia or binge eating is an abnormal eating behavior. This eating disorder became a distinct psychological illness in 1980.
11142	Ebola hemorrhagic fever has been identified to be among the most deadliest group of diseases that is categorized under viral hemorrhagic fevers. The severity of this condition range from some mild illnesses that can possibly development into something that is potentially fatal, causing complications in the kidney function, sever bleeding, chock and respiratory problems.
11143	Ebstein's anomaly, or more popularly referred to as Ebstein's malformation, is characterized by a heart defect that primarily consists of the malformation of the tricuspid valve. This is a serious medical condition where 1 or 2 out of the 3 leaflets are found to be stuck on the heart's wall, hampering the natural movement of the heart. In most cases, there is a hole found in the atria wall, causing malfunctioning as well as leakage.
11144	Echolalia is a speech comprehension disorder wherein children mechanically repeat the words they hear from other people. This is a common concern over autistic children.
11145	Eclampsia is a fatal health complication that occurs during pregnancy, resulting to heightened possibility of coma or seizures. In some cases,, seizures are among the recognizable indicators of preeclampsia along with some severe headaches, double or blurred visions.
11146	Ectodermal dysplasia is categorized as a form of a genetic disorder wherein there is a characterized abnormal development of the patient's skin and associated structures such as the nails, teeth and sweat glands. Among the most dangerous medical complications that may occur in certain cases where there is a significant decrease in sweating due to the absence of the sweat glands, making the afflicted patients experience intense discomfort in warm environments.
11147	Ectopia cordis is categorized as ab extremely rare congenital malformation of the heart that still remains very not easy to treat up to this day and age. Ectopia cordis is characterized by the development of the heart outside the chest wall, which means it is not protected by the sternum or the skin. In such cases, it is also likely that other organs may also form outside the body.
11148	Ectopic heartbeat or also known as Premature ventricular contractions (PVCs) are extra, abnormal heartbeats that start in one of the heart's two lower pumping chambers or the ventricles. Simply put, it is an irregularity of the heart rate and rhythm involving extra or skipped beats.
11149	An ectopic pregnancy is characterized by a serious complication during pregnancy in which case the fertilized ovum develops in a tissue than is not on the uterine wall. Majority of the ectopic pregnancy cases occur in the Fallopian tube, but it may also occur in the ovaries, cervix and abdomen.
11150	Ectrodactyly is categorized as a form of birth defect that causes malformations of the feet and/or hand. Majority of this condition, the middle toe or the middle finger is missing or may be fused together with other neighboring digits. Hand formations usually share the similar appearance of lobster hands.
11151	Eczema also known as atopic dermatitis is a long lasting condition featuring an itchy eruption on the skin; usually accompanied by asthma or hay fever. The condition is often found in infants and children but can be a continual condition into adulthood. In some cases, the condition appears later on in life.
11152	Dyshidrotic eczema or dyshidrosis or pompholyx, is a condition in which the skin, especially the hands and feet, develop small and itchy blisters. Said blisters last up to three weeks and cause intense itching. Cracks and grooves result when the blisters dry, which can be painful.
11153	The inability of a man to maintain a firm erection long enough to have sex is called erectile dysfunction (ED). The condition is more common among older men but can occur at any age. Though the condition may not really be cause for concern from time to time, it can cause stress, relationship problems, and may affect self-esteem.
11154	Simply known as swelling, edema is the enlargement or organs, skin, or other body parts. The most common parts where swelling is observed are the hands, feet, ankles, and legs.
11155	Edwards' syndrome is primarily caused by a gene mutation, particularly the extra copy of chromosome 18. For this very reason, it is also known by a medical term trisomy 18 syndrome. The presence of the extra chromosome has proven to be quite lethal for most babies who are born with this medical condition. Edwards' syndrome causes major physical malformations and also severe mental retardation and also comes with high mortality rate.
11156	Eggs are identified as one of the most common allergy-causing foods. Such allergies can affect both children and adults and usually occurs after a few minutes of eating eggs or any food that may contain egg. The symptoms may range form mild to severe and can possibly cause anaphylaxis, a life-threatening allergic reaction.
11157	Egg Hypersensitivity is defined as the development of allergic reactions after ingestion of egg or other food that contains egg. It is believed that the albumin is the culprit behind the allergic reactions which may trigger a number of symptoms ranging from mild discomfort to serious ailments.
11158	Ehlers-Danlos Syndrome (EDS) is categorized as some various group of genetic disorders that primarily affects the connective tissue, and is characterised by joint hyper mobility, skin extensibility, and tissue fragility. This medical condition is classified according to the symptoms involved.
11159	Ehrlichiosis was first discovered towards the end of the 19th century, which is a disease that is transmitted by ticks, otherwise known as tick-borne diseases. Among the very first victims identified were from Japan that was characterized by swollen lymph nodes and fever. In the South Central and Southeastern regions of United states, the lone s tar tick, known as Amblyomma americanum has been identified as the primary culprit of this medical condition.
11160	Eight-day measles is one of the alternate names of measles, a contagious disease common among children. It is characterized by red spots that appear on the skin, runny nose and incessant coughing. When not treated measles can be very fatal, as the disease has been one of the main causes of death among infants and young children.
11161	Eisenmenger's syndrome is categorized as a medical condition that involves the collection of symptoms such as cyanosis, pulmonary hypertension and erythrocytosis. This disease is usually found among young teenagers and adults that suffer from some form of congenital heart defect that may or may not have been repaired surgically. This may also be closely associated to pulmonary hypertension.
11162	Elective mutism or selective mutism is an extremely rare disorder where the young kid chooses not to talk even when addressed to during social events even though it is an established fact that he/she can talk.
11163	Elephantiasis is a medical condition characterized by some gross enlargement of a certain area of the body, mostly affecting the limbs as well as the external genitalia. Elephantiasis is primarily caused by an obstruction of the patient's lymphatic system, which often results in the buildup of fluid known as lymph in the particular affected areas. As part of the immune system, the lymphatic system is designed to effectively protect the body against diseases and infections. This system consists of an intricate network of vessels, hence the obstruction of the tubular channels would naturally cause swelling and enlargement.
11164	Ellis-van Creveld syndrome is a type of an inherited disorder that primarily affects the bone growth that would eventually result in short stature or more popularly known as as dwarfism. People with medical condition typically have particularly short lower legs, forearms and short ribs. It is also associated malformations of the teeth and extra digits in hand and feet.
11165	Emery-Dreifuss muscular dystrophy is characterized by some form of a clinical triad consisting of joint structures that usually develop during early childhood. This is accompanied by the slow progression of muscle weakness as well as wasting that starts from the scapular down to the pelvic girdle, along with cardiac muscle involvement.
11166	Emetophobia is the irrational fear of vomiting & being near with those are vomiting. People who suffer with the said phobia tend to constantly avoid eating out as well as socializing and going out to parties. Emetophobics will go to extraordinary mile to avoid becoming violently sick.
11167	Emphysema is a chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), previously termed a chronic obstructive lung disease (COLD). This is called an obstructive lung disease because the destruction of lung tissue around smaller airways, called bronchioles, makes these airways incapable to hold their shape properly when you exhale.
11168	Empty sella syndrome refers to the medical disorder that primarily involves sella turcica, which is actually a bony structure that is located at the base of the brain that typically protects and surrounds the pituitary gland. Its is a condition that is often revealed during tests for pituitary disorders, when radiological imaging of the pituitary gland reveals a sella turcica that appears to be empty. Empty sella syndrome is found to be more common in women who have overweight issues or those who also have abnormally high blood pressure.
11169	Empyema is a condition characterized by accumulation of pus in a body cavity usually in the cavity between the lung and the membrane surrounding the lung.
11170	Encephalitis is an acute inflammation of the brain, normally caused by a viral infection. It's a rare disease that only occurs in approximately 0.5 per 100,000 individuals - most commonly in children, the elderly, and people with weakened immune systems.
11171	Encephalitis lethargica or otherwise known as von Economo disease is categorized as an atypical manifestation of encephalitis. Also known as "sleepy sickness" or as "sleeping sickness".EL is a dreadful illness that swept the world in the 1920s and then vanished as quickly as it had appeared. EL primarily attacks the brain, then leaving some of its victims in a rather statue-like condition, both motionless as well as speechless.
11172	Encephalocele, is a neural tube defect characterized by sac-like protrusions of the brain and the membranes that cover it through openings in the skull.
11173	Encephalocele anencephaly is among the most severe kinds of NTD or Neural Tube Defect. These types of defects occur during pregnancy, and affects the 'tissue' that develops into a fetus' brain and spinal cord. Anencephaly happens early in fetal development, and results when the neural tube's upper part doesn't close properly.
11174	Encephalomyelitis is a general term for inflammation of the brain and spinal cord, describing a number of disorders like acute disseminated encephalomyelitis , encephalomyelitis disseminata, a synonym for multiple sclerosis; equine encephalomyelitis and myalgic encephalomyelitis
11175	Encephalomyelitis, Myalgic is an inflammatory, chronic, mainly neurological disorder that's multisystematic and affects the body's immune system, cardiovascular system, muscoskeletal system, endocrinological system, and central nervous system or CNS. In every case of myalgic encephalomyelitis, there is an extent of disability and impaired mobility. The impairment level and complexity will depend on the level of brain injury and involvement of the end organ.
11176	Encephalopfacial angiomatosis, also referred to as Dimitiri disease or Struge-Weber syndrome, is a congenital defect that features clusters of blood vessel fibers and calcium deposits in the brain. Unusual facial birthmarks as well as seizures are common with persons in this condition. Angiomas also develop inside the face, brain, jaws and eyes.
11177	Encopresis is the voluntary or involuntary passage of stools in children over age 4. This occurs when a child resists having bowel movements, causing impacted tool to collect in the colon and rectum. Liquid stool can leak around the impacted stool then out of the anus, which causes the soiling of the underwear. The condition is also called stool holding.
11178	End stage renal disease, or chronic renal failure, is the progressive damage of the kidneys. In this stage the renal organs no longer function therefore affecting renal excretion and other body activities.
11179	Endocardial cushion defect or also known as atrioventricular canal defect is a combination of several abnormalities in the heart that is congenital. In this condition, a hole between the chambers of the heart is present. There are also problems with the valves that regulate blood flow in the heart. The condition is also called atriventicular septal defect. There are two common types of atrioventricular canal defect. The fist one is partial, which means that only the two upper chambers of the heart are involved. The other one is called the complete form, which allows the blood to travel freely among all chambers but also lets extra blood circulate to the lungs, causing the heart to enlarge.
11180	Endocardial fibroelastosis is a rare heart disorder that is characterized by a thickening within the muscular lining of the heart chambers (the endocardium) due to an increase in the amount of supporting connective tissue and elastic fibers. It is considered to be a rather uncommon cause of some unexplained types of heart failure among infants and children.
11181	Endocarditis is characterized as an inflammation of the inner layer of the patient's heart, which is medically termed as the endocardium. Among the most common structures of this medical condition involves the heart valves.
11182	Endocarditis occurs when bacteria settles in the heart. Because the valves of the heart don't have any blood supply of their own, mechanisms for defense such as the white blood cells cannot enter into the heart. In such case, if an organism like bacteria hold on the valves, which normally the body will not be able to get rid of.
11183	Endocrinopathy is a disorder associated with an endocrine gland. It is also often known as a hormone imbalance. It is a collective term for diseases in the endocrine glands associated with hormones
11184	Endometrial cancer is cancer that starts in the lining of the uterus called the endometrium. It is one of the most common cancers in American women. About 40,000 American women receive a diagnosis of endometrial cancer each year, which makes it the fourth most common cancer found in women.
11184	Endometrial cancer is a common type of cancer affecting most American women. Roughly forty thousand American women are diagnosed per year, making it the 4th most common female cancer. It begins in the lining of the uterus (called the endometrium), and may also affect other cells of the uterus. It is alternatively known as uterine cancer, and usually appears as the female's reproductive period ends, usually at ages 60-70.
11185	An endometrial polyp or uterine polyp is a polyp or lesion in the lining of the uterus or the endometirum, which takes up space within the uterine cavity. Ranging from a few millimeters to several centimeters in size, polyps are attached to the uterine wall by a large base or a thin stalk.
11186	Endometriosis is a very common condition of women characterized by a growth outside the uterus of the endometrium which is the tissue that lines the uterus. This disorder is known to have affected women who are around 30 to 40 years old and who have not experienced being pregnant. These women are of reproductive age all around the world. This disorder, however, can occur just rarely in women at their postmenopausal age. In Endometriosis, the endometrium, which is misplaced, is unable to get out of the body. Although the tissues will still detach from the wall and bleed, but the result is internal bleeding, the surrounding areas swell, pain, shedding of blood and tissue, and scar tissue formation.
11187	Endomyocardial fibrosis otherwise known as EMF is a kind of disease, progressive, which is due to unknown origin or idiopathic that is known to affect the heart seriously. The most obvious feature of this disease is a great change in the lining of the heart cavities known as the endocardium in one or can be both of the chambers of the heart in the lower part. It may also involve the heart valves found between the four chambers of the heart including the tendon-like cords holding the valves to the ventricles. Endomyocardial fibrosis is also similar to Loeffler's disease. Some regard Loeffler's disease as an early stage of the EMF, however, this idea remains to be controversial. This is one form of the Hypereosinophilic syndrome
11188	Enetophobia is described as "a persistent, unwarranted, and abnormal fear of pins." Every year this very common phobia or fear causes so many people distress of being needless. To make things worst for such very distressing condition, most therapies usually take months or even years which at times will even require the person frequent and countless exposure to his fear. It is believed that the procedure is not only unnecessary, it also often worsen the condition. It is really cruel the fear can be eliminated with just 24 hours of commitment provided the right method is done to the patient.
11189	Eneuresis, or enuresis, is a childhood disorder in which the child urinates while asleep. This is one of the pediatric issues common even today.
11190	Enlarged heart or cardiomegaly is a sign of an underlying problem.
11191	Enlarged liver or Hepatomegaly is swelling of the liver beyond its normal size. An adult liver is about the size of a small football.
11192	Prostate enlargement happens to almost all men as the age. When the prostate gland grows bigger, it can press on the urethra and cause urination and bladder problems. Prostate gland enlargement is also known for the medical term benign prostate hyperplasia.
11193	Also known as splenomegaly, enlargement of the spleen, as the name suggests, is the growing of the spleen beyond its normal size.
11194	Goiter, or the enlargement of the thyroid gland, is a condition more common in women and older adults. The thyroid gland is a small, butterfly-shaped gland weighing less than an ounce, located just below the Adam's apple.
11195	Enteric Fever It is commonly known as typhoid fever which is an uncommon illness in the developed countries but it is a serious illness in developing countries. Typhoid fever is transmitted through contaminated water and food or through direct contact with an infected individual.
11196	Enterocele is a condition among women in which the muscles and tissues that hold the small bowel in place stretch or weaken, causing the small bowel to drop from its original position and protrude through the vaginal wall, and creating a bulge. Vaginal hernia is the result of enterocele.
11197	Enterocolitis is the medical term used to describe the inflammation of the small and large intestine. However, this illness is further categorized to be either enteritis (inflammation of the small intestine) or colitis (large intestine). Enterocolitis is a common intestinal disease among children.
11198	Entropion is the term used to describe the inward folding of the eyelids. This is a discomforting condition since the eyelids will be rubbing against the cornea. This may lead to eye infections such as trachoma.
11198	Entropion refers to a medical condition wherein the eyelids tend to fold inward. This situation can be very annoying since the eyelashes that rub against the cornea may cause friction and irritation.
11199	Also known as bed-wetting, nocturnal enuresis of nighttime incontinence is a developmental stage and is not a sign of toilet training gone bad. Primary enuresis is the term for children who have never been dry at night. Those who begin to wet the bed after at least six months of dry nights are considered to have secondary enuresis.
11200	Eosinophilia refers to a condition where high levels of eosinophils are found in the blood. Among the causes of the condition are diseases such as hypereisinophilic syndrome, allergic disorders, Hodgkin's disease, drug reactions and cholesterol embolization.
11201	Eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome or EMS is an incurable neurogical condition. Sometimes this conditon is fatal to some patients. It is flu-like condition that is associated to be triggered by ingestion or consumption of L-tryptophan supplements which are poorly produced. Like the regular eosinophilia, it can cause increase in the eosinophil granulocytes present in the patient's blood. There are new developments though, another explanation for EMS claims that it is brought about by the consumption of large amount of tryptophan. It leads to the production of the metabolites, which can interfere with the normal degradation of histamine. Also too much activity of histamine has been associated and related to blood eosinophilia and myalgia.
11202	Eosinophilic esophagitis is an inflammation of the esophagus due to allergic reaction. This illness is common among children but occurs in adults as well.
11203	Eosinophilic fasciitis also called EF, is a form of a fascia inflamation. It is different from scleroderma because most of the time the area affected is the fascia and not the dermis as in the case of scleroderma. Also, not like scleroderma when the patients manifests the Raynaud's phenomenon and the telangiectasia, patients are not observed to have those manifestations. This disease is more commonly observed in men and less likely in women. Some cases have also been reported to have occured after a strenuous exercise
11204	Eosinophilic gastroenteritis or EG is a heterogeneous condition which is usually rare and characterized by some patchy or diffuse infiltration of the gastrointestinal tissue. It is also classified into different clasifications like serosal, mucosal, and muscular types basing on the involvement depth. For this condition, any part of the gastrointestinal tract may be affected. Also an involvment of the isolated biliary tract was reported. Most of the time it is the stomach that is commonly affected, then the small intestine and then the colon
11205	Eosinophilic granuloma is a rare disease often involving proliferation of clones of the langerhans cells, ana some abnormal cells from the bone marrow which are and capable of migrating from the skin to the lymph nodes. In a clinical test, its presentations may range from an isolated bone lesions to a disease involving many parts of the body systems.
11206	Ependymoblastoma is a malignant tumor which is very rarely reported. It is also known as Primitive neuroectodermal tumor or PNET. It usually occurs in children who are under 10 years of age. Ependyoblastoma is classified into two types which is based on its location in the body. It can be peripheral PNET or CNS PNET.
11207	Ependymoma is a tumor that usually arises from the ependyma. Ependyma a tissue located in the central nervous system. Most of the time, the location of the tumor in children is in the intracranial, while the location of the tumor is in the spinal in the case of adults. The most common location of the intracranial ependymoma is in the fourth ventricle. It is only very rarely that ependymoma occurs in the pelvis or in the pelvic cavity. It is believed that Ependyomoma may have cause Syringomyelia. These tumors are also seen with Type 2 Neurofibromatosis.
11208	Epicondylitis (lateral) otherwise known as tennis elbow, is a very common problem encountered by physicians in the orthopedic practice. It is an injury due to the overuse of the part which involves the extensor or the supinator muscles originating on the lateral part of the epicondylar region of the distal humerus. It has been noted to occur in at least 50% of tennis athletes. But this condition is not only limited to the tennis players, it also has been reported to occur due to any overuse of the specific parts to many activities. Lateral epicondylitis is also very common in today's very active society.
11209	Epidermodysplasia verruciformis is also termed as Lewandowsky-Lutz dysplasia or Lutz-Lewandowsky epidermodysplasia verruciformis. This is a very rare skin disease which is characterized by growth of scaly macules and rashes or papules, especially on the patient's feet and hands. Epidermodysplasia usually begins in childhood stage without any known cure. In some cases though, high doses of vitamin A may help ameliorate the condition.
11210	Epidermoid carcinoma or squamous cell carcinoma is a form of carcinoma type cancer which may occur in different numerous organs which includes the urinary bladder, skin, mouth, lips, esophagus, prostate, lungs, vagina, and also the cervix. It is often a malignant tumor of the squamous epithelium or the epithelium that presents squamous cell differentiation.
11211	Often painless and slow-growing small bumps that develop just beneath the skin on the neck, face, trunk and sometimes in the genital area are called epidermoid cysts. These cysts don't usually cause problems or need treatment unless they become a cosmetic concern, or become infected or they rupture where they can just be removed surgically.
11212	Epidermolysis Bullosa is a very rare disease inherited genetically. It is often characterized by very fragile skin and blister formation that may come and go. These skin blisters often result from minor friction to other rough surfaces or by trauma.
11213	Epidermolytic hyperkeratosis is also called bullous congenital ichthyosiform erythroderma. This condition is a relatively rare autosomal ichthyosis which is dominant. It was first described in 1902 by Brocq as bullous a ichthyotic erythroderma to distinguish it from the congenital ichthyotic erythroderma. The defect which causes the condition is found to be in the genes for keratin 1 and 10.
11214	Epididymitis is a condition wherin the epididymis swell or becomes inflamed. This medical condition may entail mild to extremely pain. Adminsitration of antibiotics may also be needed to control infection. Epididymis is structure located along the posterior area of the testis. It is coiled and tubular in appearance. It is the structure that allows for the transport, storage, and maturation of the sperm cells and also connecting the efferent ducts to the vas deferens. Swelling of the epididymis can either be acute or chronic and is commonly caused by infection.
11215	Also known as intracranial hematoma, Epidural hematoma is a serious and possibly life-threatening condition that often requires immediate treatment. The condition occurs when a blood vessel ruptures within the brain or between the skull and the brain. The brain tissue is then compressed due to the collection of blood.
11216	Epiglottitis is the medical term used to describe the inflammation of the epiglottis. The epiglottis is the flap that prevents the passage of food and other solid particles into the trachea. A swollen epiglottis is painful and can cause permanent damages to the trachea.
11217	Epilepsy is a very common chronic neurological condition characterized by a recurrent seizure which is usally.The unprovoked seizures are transient signs or symptoms brought about by synchronous, abnormal, or excessive activities of the neurons in the patient's brain.There are about 50 million people around the world who suffer epilepsy at an any given time. Not all of epilepsy syndrome cases occur in a lifetime. Some forms of this disorder are only confined to some certain stages of childhood. Epilepsy, however, should not be considered or interpreted as a single disorder, rather occur as a group of syndromes with widely divergent symptoms which are all involving an episodic, abnormal electrical activity in the brain.
11218	Epilepsy in children refers to the random seizures experienced by children from time to time. These seizures are caused by abnormal neurological transmissions that occur in the brain. They can be mild or cause violence not just to the child but as well as his immediate surroundings. Children with congenital neurological damages are affected by epilepsy, and attacks can be triggered by sudden burst of emotions. Epilepsy can lead to more severe problems including death when not managed.
11219	Epilepsy juvenile absence otherwise known as absence seizures are one of the many kinds of seizures. These seizures are also sometimes called petit mal seizures in an older term. In Epilepsy juvenile absence, the person can appear to be without jerking or could also appear to be staring into a blank wall or without twitching any eye muscle. These periods could last for seconds, or for a longer time of ten seconds. People experiencing absence seizures at times tends to move from one place to another without even a purpose.
11220	Episcleritis is a condition wherein the tissue that connects the sclera and conjuctiva becomes swollen. This is one reason behind red eyes, and it can be an indication of the presence of other diseases such as lupus, arthritis and inflammatory bowel disease.
11220	Episcleritis is a condition wherein the tissue that connects the sclera and conjuctiva becomes swollen. This is one reason behind red eyes, and it can be an indication of the presence of other diseases such as lupus, arthritis and inflammatory bowel disease.
11221	Epispadias is a rare kind of malformation of the penis. In this condition, the urethra ends at the upper aspect of the penis. This malformation is result of a failure of the pelvic and abdominal fusion during the first stages of embryogenesis. Among the other defects include a bifid phallus joined with an exstrophic bladder. Epispadias may also occur among women.
11222	Epstein barr virus mononucleosis is also known as infectious mononucleosis. It is also known by other terms like the kissing disease or the Pfeiffer's disease. It is also most commonly called as glandular fever. This condition occurs most frequently in young adolescents and at times to young adults. Infectious Mononucleosis or kissing fever entails only very mild illness in small children, and usually asymptomatic.
11223	Equinophobia is a medical or mental condition defined as "a rather unwarranted, persistent, and abnormal fear of horses."
11224	Erb-Duchenne Palsy is also referred to as Brachial plexus paralysis or simply Erb's Palsy. This is a condition which is mainly caused by birth trauma. It can affect one or can be all of the primary nerves supplying the feeling and movement of the arm. The Erb's palsy can be cured even without intervention or it may sometimes require correction by a surgical intervention.
11225	Erdheim-Chester disease is also known as polyostotic sclerosing histiocytosis or the Erdheim-Chester syndrome. This condition is a relatively rare form of non-Langerhans-cell histiocytosis. Usually, this condition affects people at their in middle age years. It usually involves infiltration of lipid-laden macrophages, giant cells which are multinucleated, an infiltrate of lymphocytes which are usually swelling, and histiocytes located in the bone marrow, and sclerosis of the long bones.
11226	Ergophobia is an abnormal and usually persistent fear of work. People suffering ergophobia often experience unreasonable stress or fatigue about work of the workplace environment even if they themselves realize that their fear is rather irrational. Their fear of work may also actually be a combined fears like the fear of not meeting his employers' expectation or failing at a tasked assigned to him, fear of talking or speaking in front of groups at the workplace, or fear of interacting or socializing with other co-employees. The word "Ergophobia" is taken from the Greek word "ergon" which means work and "phobos" which means fear.
11227	Erysipelas also known as Saint Anthony's Fire, is a streptococcus bacterial infection of the skin that results inflammation. It occurs on any part of the body, including the face, arms, fingers, legs and toes.
11228	Erysipeloid is a cutaneous disease characerized by indolent cellulitis. This disease is common among meat and fish handlers.
11229	Erythema, or Erythema Nodosum Leprosum (ENL), is the medical name of the dreaded skin disease, leprosy. It is characterized by a rapid development of sores in the different parts of the skin. When not treated, it can lead to blindness, tuberculosis, and irreversible disfigurement of one's physical appearance.
11230	Commonly called as the fifth of a group of once-common childhood diseases with small rashes where the other four are measles, rubella, scarlet fever and Dukes' disease, erythema infectiosum is what doctors refer today as parvovirus infection. It is still a common but mild infection in children because it generally requires little treatment. Some people often call it a slapped-cheek disease because of the face rash that develops resembling slap marks, but for some pregnant women, it can lead to serious health problems for the fetus.
11231	Erythema multiforme is a skin disorder that is idiopathic or has unknown cause. But some experts said that this disease is cause by malfunction of the immune system due to infection or drug exposure that affects the skin and oral mucous membrane. It is a self-limiting skin disease, it means that the disease will just relieve without treatment. It will complicate to Stevens-Johnson syndrome, a life threatening skin disorder cause by drug allergic reaction.
11232	Erythema nodosum is a kind of 'skin inflammation', found in a specific part of the skin's fatty layer. The disorder results in painful, tender, reddish lumps that's most commonly found in front of one's legs on the lower part of the knees. These lumps vary in dimension, from one to five centimeters. The lumps can also occur for several weeks or months, and eventually go away.
11233	A common skin condition affecting the skin folds and is called erythrasma. An infection by the bacterium Corynebacterium minutissimum is a result of the slowly enlarging patches of pink to brown dry skin. People affected by this condition are mostly overweight or have diabetes which are common in warm climates.
11234	Erythroderma It is also known as erythrodermatitis, generalized exfoliative dermatitis, and also called as red man syndrome. It is refer to as a generalized skin disorder that is caused by different types of skin diseases like psoriasis, and some skin allergies.
11235	Erythromelalgia is also popularly known as Mitchell's disease. Other terms associated with Erythromelalgia are red neuralgia, or erythermalgia. This is a rather rare disorder characterized by the blood vessels located usually in the legs of the lower extremeties are blocked and becomes inflamed. The blocking then entails a severe pain and skin redness. Oftentimes, the attacks of Erythromelalgia comes in a periodic pattern and are mostly triggered by too much heat, drinking alcohol, or exertion. It can also occur as a primary or can be a secondary disorder. Oftentimes, econdary erythromelalgia could result from minute fiber peripheral neuropathy cause by any factors, poisoning from the mushroom or mercury, hypercholesterolemia, and some autoimmune disorders.
11236	Erythromelalgia, also called, as Mitchell's disease is an uncommon disorder of the blood vessels, commonly affected are the lower extremities. It is an inflammation of the blood vessel cause by the blood vessel blockage. It is usually triggered by heat, alcohol consumption, or exertion.
11237	Erythroplakia is a red patch which is usually flat or a swelling in the mouth area that cannot be associated to other pathology. There are many various conditions which appear similar. This conditions must be ruled out and distinguished from erythroplakia before a certained diagnosis of the condition can be made. There are times that a diagnosis is up to be delayed for long periods up to two weeks so that or to see if the swell or the lesion is spontaneously regressing or if there is another cause that can be found. Erythroplakia usually is associated to dysplasia.
11238	Erythropoietic protoporphyria is a rather mild type or form of a porphyria , although it is very painful. This condition arises because of a deficiency in the human ferrochelatase enzyme. The deficiency then leads to abnormal often very high levels of protoporphyrin present in the tissue. The extent of the condition significantly varies from one person to another.
11239	Protoporhyria, erythropoietic is a painful form of porphyria which is caused by the lack of the ferrochelatase enzyme. Because of this the tissue gains extremely high levels of protopohyrin that causes the skin's photosensitivity.
11240	Escherichia coli infection is infection brought about by the Escherichia group of bacteria including numerous strains, causing severe stomach cramps and diarrhea and is more common during the summer months.
11241	Esophageal atresia is also otherwise known as Oesophageal atresia. This condition is a medical birth defect condition, which usually affects the alimentary tract. It causes the esophagus to result in a blind-ended pouch impeding its function of normally connecting to the stomach.
11242	A serious form of cancer from your 10 inch long tube that connects your throat and stomach and starts in the inner layer of your esophagus.
11243	Esophageal disorders refers to any disorder or abnormal conditions associated to the esophagus. It may include Achalas, Chagas disease, Caustic injury to the esophagus, Esophageal atresia and Tracheoesophageal fistula, Esophageal cancer, Esophageal web, Esophagitis, GERD, Hiatus hernia, Mallory-Weiss syndrome, Neurogenic dysphagia, Schatzki's ring, Zenker's Diverticulum, and Boerhaave syndrome.
11244	Esophageal diverticulum is the development of sacs in the esophageal area. The sacs are believe to have developed because of problematic swallowing motion of the tongue, making way for particles to develop in the esophageal lining.
11245	Esophageal neoplasm or esophageal cancer is a malignant condition of the esophagus. It refers to various other subtypes. Often, esophageal tumors usually lead to dysphagia or a patient's difficulty in swallowing, pain associated with other symptoms. These are often diagnosed via biopsy.
11246	An esophageal ring, also known as Schatzki's ring, is a cluster of fiber tissues that surround the lower esophagus. It is not malignant, but it can cause stomach acid reflux to the esophagus during the onset of a hiatus hernia. It can be treated by dilation to allow food to pass down the esophagus towards the stomach.
11247	Esophageal spasms are an uncoordinated series of muscle contractions that prevent food from traveling properly from your esophagus to your stomach. These spasms can be very painful. Chest pain is a common symptom of esophageal spasms.
11248	An esophageal stricture is the process of narrowing of the esophagus. This becomes the main cause of swallowing difficulties. It can also be associated with other gastrointestinal diseases such as esophagitis.
11249	Sores that develop on the inside lining of your stomach, upper small intestine or esophagus are called peptic ulcers. There are three different names for peptic ulcer depending on the location namely gastric ulcer, duodenal ulcer, and esophageal ulcer. The most common symptom of a peptic ulcer is pain.
11250	Esophageal varices are very dilated sub-mucosal veins located in the esophagus. Most often, these are a consequence of a portal hypertension similar to that of cirrhosis. Patients having esophageal varices have a very strong tendency to suffer from bleeding.
11251	Esophagitis simply refers to the swelling or inflammation of the esophagus. It is usually caused by other illnesses such as gastroesophageal reflux syndrome (GERD), and infections due to certain viruses and bacteria. Food allergies can also result to esophagitis. The swelling of the esophagus can be treated by NSAID medications.
11252	Esotropia is a form of squint or strabismus. In this condition, one or both of the eyes are turned inwards. Esotropia can be present constantly or may occur in an intermittent manner. It can usually give a cross-eyed appearance of the affected person. Esotropia is also sometimes wrongly called as lazy eye.
11253	Hypertension, HTN or HPN commonly called to as "high blood pressure". It is a medical problem in which the blood pressure or BP of a person is elevated. A person is considered to be hypertensive if a person's systolic pressure is 140 mmhg and above while the diastolic pressure is 90 mmHg and above. There are two classification of hypertension , the essential or primary hypertension ,indicates that no specific medical factor that can explain the condition. The secondary hypertension indicates the condition of the patient is cause by another disorder.
11254	Essential mixed cryoglobulinemia is an autoimmune defect that involves the blood as well as other body systems. It is characterized by the abnormal presence of various antibodies in the bloodstream.
11255	Essential thrombocytopenia refers to low platelets level in blood. The normal platelet count in the blood ranges from 150,000 and 450,000 per mm3. While in thrombocytopenia it has less than 150,000 per mm.
11256	Essential thrombocytosis (ET) also known as essential thrombocythemia refers to overproduction of platelets in the bone marrow . In some cases this disorder is progressive, it means this disease get worst.
11257	The word "essential" in essential tremor means that the disorder isn't linked to other disease and is a sign of a movement disorder characterized as dismissed trembling hands or shaking head also it is also part of a normal aging process. It is the most common of the many movement disorder.
11258	Ethylmalonic aciduria also called as Organic academia and organic aciduria, this disease is a metabolic disorders. That affects the amino acid breakdown. The alteration of amino acids metabolism can affect not just one organ but the whole organs of the body. There are four types of ethylmalonic aciduris, these are the methylmalonic acidemia, propionic acidemia, isovaleric acidemia, and maple syrup urine disease.[1]
11259	Evans' Syndrome is a disorder that refers to an autoimmune disease. It means that the patient's antibodies attack their own blood products like the red blood cells and platelet. It is commonly cause by the two autoimmune disorders, the Autoimmune hemolytic anemia (a condition in which the red blood cells are destroyed by an autoimmune process). And the immune thrombocytopenic purpura (a condition in which the platelets are destroyed by autoimmune process.)
11260	Ewing's sarcoma is also known as primitive neuroectodermal tumor and bone cancer. It is a disease that the cancer cell is found in the bone. |It is commonly occurs in pelvisc bone, the femur bone, humerus bone, and the ribs.
11261	Excessive sweat, or hyperhidrosis, is the excessive release of perspiration. It is the kind of sweating not caused by strenuous activities but can be due to genetic defects. It usually triggers the hands, underarms and feet.
11262	Exhibitionism is a psychological disorder wherein a person makes it a habit to display unusual behaviors to attract public attention. This is characterized by habitual daredevil stunts or exposure of sexual behaviors.
11263	Exogenous lipoid pneumonia Also known as Lipid pneumonia or lipoid pneumonia is a lung inflammation or what we called pneumonia. But the difference is the exogenous is the lipid has entered the bronchial tree or the lungs while in pneumonia the water enters the lungs.
11264	Exophthalmos is referring to as a bulging of the eye out of the orbit bone. There are two types of exopthalmus, its either bilateral, it is often seen in Graves' Disease or unilateral cause by an orbital tumor.
11265	Hereditary multiple exostoses (HME) is also called Multiple exostosis it is a disorder in which multiple bone growth in the bony area.
11266	exostosis is a bone disorder of the formation of new bone is altered. There is overgrowth of the bone of an individual.
11267	Exploding head syndrome is a medical disorder that the patient suffers from a very loud noise that comes from within his or her head.
11268	Extensively drug resistant tuberculosis (XDR TB) is a rare type of tuberculosis that is resistant to almost every kind of anti-TB medication, including rifampin and isonazid. XDR TB also doesn't respond to second-line medications such as fluoroquinolones.
11269	External compression headache is the pain of constant pressure on the forehead or scalp that is caused by an object worn on the head.
11270	Swimmer's ear or external otitis is an infection of the outer ear and ear canal. This happens when the ear is exposed to excess moisture and water is trapped in the ear canal. The acidity that normally prevents infection is diluted because the skin becomes soggy. Cuts along the lining of the ear can also cause bacteria to penetrate the skin.
11271	Supernumerary nipples, or extra nipples, are additional nipples that have developed in one's mammary area. They appear along vertical milk lines near the armpits. They are often mistaken as moles. These nipples however, do not perform the same functions as normal nipples. Among the famous personalities with extra nipples are actor Mark Wahlberg and American Idol singer Carrie Underwood.
11272	Extradural, or epidural hematoma, is the clotting of blood between the brain's dura mater and the skull. This condition can be fatal due to the pressure brought about by the buildup of blood which compresses the brain tissue.
11273	Extrapontine myelinolysis is a neurological disorder wherein the pons area, or myelin sheath in which the nerve cells are located, is damaged.
11274	Extrophy of the Bladder or to use the more appropriate medical term, exstrophy-epispadias complex, which is an extremely rare congenital abnormality. This medical condition involves a number of anomalies affecting the bladder, abdominal walls, external genetalia and anterior bone pelvis.
11275	Eye cancers are malignant growths in the eyes. They are commonly associated with other cancers such as breast and lung cancers. They begin to grow as benign cysts or malignant rhabdomyosarcoma. When not treated, these cancers can caused permanent blindness or even death.
11276	Floaters are bits of cellular debris that come and go without treatment. They are often seen as floating specks in front of the eyes but they are not really on the surface but inside. Floater among other people may look like spots and to some they may look like tiny threads.
11277	Melanoma that originates in your eye is termed a primary eye cancer. Eye melanoma is the most common type of primary eye cancer in adults, but it's rare. If the melanoma begins elsewhere and then spreads to your eye, it's called a secondary eye cancer; this also is rare.
11278	Eye melanoma cancer is a disease affecting the cells in the eyes that produce melanin. It affects the frontal area of the uvea, particularly in the iris and ciliary body, as well as in the back portion of the uvea, particularly in the choroids layer. Melanoma is more commonly associated with skin cancer; however, it can also develop in an individual's eyes, as in the case of eye melanoma cancer. It may occur in the form of a primary eye cancer, which means that the melanoma originated in the eye; or as a secondary eye cancer, in which the melanoma has spread to the eye from some other part of the body.
11279	Eye neuropathy is a rare damage that affects the optic and optic-related nerves. It is a kind of diabetic neuropathy. Neuropathy can also occur on the face and feet. Among the symptoms of eye neuropathy are reduced pupil sensitivity, less pupil constrictions and dilation, as well as problematic eye motility.
11280	Eyelid cysts, or chalazia, are growths inside the eyelid caused by the swelling of the meibomian gland. These cysts are usually painless but they sometimes grow big enough to obstruct one's vision.
11281	Eye inflammation or also known as Blepharitis is a condition affecting the skin of the eyelids and usually involves the part of the eyelid where the eyelashes grow.
11282	Fabry disease is basically caused by the faulty or lack of enzyme that are needed to efficiently metabolize lipids, which are fat-like substances that include waxes, oils and fatty acids. This enzyme is known as alpha-galactosidase-A or otherwise known as ceramide trihexosidase.
11283	Facet degeneration syndrome is a severe kind of back pain that affects the facet joint. It is associated with another back illness, degenerative disc disease.
11284	Facial palsy or Bell's palsy is a temporary form of facial paralysis occurring when the nerve that controls movement of the muscles in the face are damaged.
11285	Facial paralysis is quite a common problem that primarily involves the paralysis of any facial structure that is innervated by the nerve of the face. The main pathway of the human facial nerve is relatively convoluted and long, which means there are a number of underlying causes that may result to the development of facial paralysis. Among the most common causes is Bell's palsy.
11286	Faciocutaneoskeletal syndrome is a rare congenital disorder that takes place on the different organs of the body, causing multisystem disorder.
11287	Facioscapulohumeral muscular dystrophy is also commonly known by another medical term as Landouzy-Dejerine. This is categorized as an autosomal dominant type of muscular dystrophy that primarily affects the patient's skeletal muscles of the scapula, face and upper arms. It is categorized as one of the most common genetic disorder that affects the skeletal muscle. The symptoms gradually develop and can become increasingly evident during the teenage years.
11288	Also known as Munchausen syndrome, Factitious disorder is a serious mental disorder in which someone pretends to be sick or deliberately causes illness of injury to fulfill his or her deep emotional needs. The disease is names after Baron von Munchausen. People with factitious disorder often make up symptoms, push for risky operations, or try to rig laboratory results in order to gain sympathy and concern. Munchausen syndrome
11289	Factor II deficiency is categorized is an extremely rare disorder. To date, there are only about 26 reported cases of this medical condition and is said to only occur 1 in 2 million individuals. This is known as an autosomal recessive disorder that equally affects both women and men. This is also known as prothrombin deficiency, which is identified as a precursor to thrombin and manifests as an abnormality of the prothrombin structure.
11290	Factor V deficiency is a hereditary disorder in which there is an anomalous blood coagulation, resulting from a deficiency in a plasma protein called Factor V. Factor V functions as an enzyme cofactor; the deficiency will lead to a tendency for hemorrhage, while some mutations influence thrombosis.
11291	Factor V Leiden mutation is a widespread clotting disorder caused by the mutation of a gene in the clotting of Factor V. The mutation results to Factor V responding more gradually to Protein C. Protein C is an anti-clotting aspect that usually controls Factor V activity. Consequently, individuals with Factor V Leiden mutation have increased risks of thrombophilia or blood clots.
11292	Factor VII deficiency is an uncommon disorder that's hereditary in which there is a lack of sufficient plasma protein Factor VII. The deficiency leads to coagulation or abnormal clotting of the blood. Clinical bleeding may vary widely and doesn't always associate with Factor VII coagulant activity level. FVII is among the Vitamin K group that's synthesized inside the liver.
11293	Factor VIII deficiency is an uncommon bleeding disorder in which a fundamental clotting factor, known as gene Factor VIII, is lacking. The lack leads to Hemophilia A disorder, which results to an increased bleeding risk from injuries, particularly injuries on joints, brain, muscles, and digestive tract.
11294	Factor X Deficiency, Congenital -is an uncommon inherited disorder that involves the lack of a protein, known as Factor X, in one's blood. The deficiency in the protein leads to blood clotting problems, ranging from mild to serious. Women affected by the deficiency may experience extremely heavy menstrual flow, as well bleeding following delivery.
11295	Factor XI Deficiency, Congenital -is an uncommon hereditary bleeding disorder that involves a deficiency in blood protein Factor XI. This blood protein is required for the process of blood clotting. The disorder is typically mild, but its severity is variable. Factor XI deficiency may initially manifest as 'incidental laboratory abnormality', which may show as early as circumcision or much later during possible surgery.
11296	Factor XIII Deficiency, Congenital -is a very uncommon hereditary blood disorder that is characterized by anomalous blood clotting resulting in abnormal bleeding. Factor XIII is fundamentally a 'plasma transglutaminase', which catalyzes the last step of coagulation cascade; it cross-links 'loose fibrin polymer' into an extremely organized structure. Defect in Factor XIII results to the symptoms of the deficiency.
11297	Fahr's disease is an uncommon genetically dominant neurological disorder in which there is a presence of abnormal calcium deposits in brain areas that control movement, including the 'cerebral cortex' and 'basal ganglia'. This condition is frequently referred to as IBGC or 'idiopathic basal ganglia calcification', as there's no obvious explanation for calcification within these regions of the brain.
11298	Vasovagal syncope is the most common type of fainting. There are a number of different syncope syndromes; all which falling under the umbrella of vasovagal syncope. The central mechanism leading to loss of consciousness is the common element among these conditions. The only difference among them is the triggering factors.
11299	Fallen arches or also known as Pes planovalgus, is a condition where the arch or instep of the foot collapses and comes in contact with the ground. This arch never develops in some individuals.
11300	Fallen bladder is also called cystocele. This condition occurs when the wall in between the bladder and the vagina becomes weak allowing the bladder to fall into the vagina and causing problems emptying the bladder. A bladder that dropped off from the normal position may cause problems unwanted leakage of urine and the bladder emptied incompletely. A fallen bladder also stretches the opening of the urethra which cause urine to leak out when coughing, sneezing, laughing, or any movement putting pressure on the bladder.
11301	Fallot tetralogy is a rare condition that involves defects inside the structures of the heart of young children and infants. Jointly, these defects lead to poor oxygen in blood flowing from the heart into the body. As a result, children and infants with this condition typically show blue-tinged skin.
11302	Familial adenomatous polyposis is a common genetic disorder that can lead to cancer of the colon if it is left undetected. Affected individuals develop countless 'adenomatous colorectal polyps' in the rectum or colon, particularly during their teenage years and twenties. The polyps aren't cancerous, but due to their numerous quantities, there's greater chance that a number will go through mutation and trigger cancer development.
11303	Familial amyloid polyneuropathy, otherwise known as Corino de Andrade's Disease, is a deadly and untreatable health condition that was first identified in the 1950s. This disease is characterized by amyloidogenic transthyretin protein that aer systematically deposited particularly in the peripheral nervous system of the body.
11304	Familial emphysema is a kind of emphysema brought about by genetic problems rather than smoking. It is caused by a deficiency of the AAT enzyme that protects the elastin found in the lung alveoli. When the elastin is damaged, serious pulmonary problems may occur.
11305	A genetic health condition, familial Mediterranean fever is characterized by the repeating occurrences of inflammation in the chest, abdomen, or joints. These episodes, which were found to be painful, typically happen along with fever, and at times, a rash.
11306	Familial paroxysmal peritonitis or also known as Familial Mediterranean fever is an inherited inflammatory disorder usually occurring among people with Mediterranean origin. A rare disorder, it is typically diagnosed during childhood.
11307	Familial periodic paralysis is an uncommon genetic disease that brings about weakness, or more severely, paralysis, but rarely causes death. While this is is passed on through the genes, not everyone in the family suffer the same degree of the condition.
11308	Familial Polyposis is a genetic medical condition that attacks the patient's large intestine. Although this disease is considered rare, leaving it untreatedd can cause the onset of cancer.
11309	Fan death is a South Korean urban legend which states that an electric fan, if left running overnight in a closed room, can result in the death (by suffocation when oxygen is "stolen" from the victims, poisoning, or hypothermia) of those inside.
11310	Fanconi syndrome is also known as Fanconi's syndrome is a disorder where in function of the proximal tubular of the kidney is damaged that results to reduced re-absorption of electrolytes and nutrients back into the bloodstream. Amino acids, glucose, phosphate, uric acid and bicarbonate are the compounds involved. This disorder should not be confused with Fanconi anemia which is another disease.
11311	Fanconi Syndrome (also called Fanconi's syndrome) is a disorder in which the proximal tubular function of the kidney is impaired, leading to an decreased reabsorption of electrolytes and nutrients back into the bloodstream. Compounds involved include glucose, uric acid, amino acids, phosphate and bicarbonate.
11312	Fanconi's anemia (FA) is an inherited ailment that involves children and adults belonging to all ethnic backgrounds. FA is distinguished by skeletal abnormalities, short figure, elevated occurrence of solid tumors and leukemias, failure in bone marrow and cellular sensitivity destroying agents like mitomycin C.
11313	Farber's disease is also referred to as Farber's lipogranulomatosis or ceramidase deficiency it illustrates a group of unusual autosomal recessive disorders that results from the build up of lipids in the joints, central nervous system and tissues.
11314	Also known as hypersensitivity alveolitis or extrinsic allergic alveolitis, Farmer's Lung is defined as the occupational or environmental lung condition that is common among those who are constantly exposed to moldy crops like corn, grain, hay, and straw.
11315	Farsightedness or hyperopia is a common vision condition in which an affected person can see objects in the distance clearly, but objects nearby may be blurry. The degree of farsightedness determines your focusing ability and for people with severe farsightedness, they can only clearly see objects at a great distance while those with mild farsightedness may clearly see objects that are closer.
11316	Fasciculations are muscle twitches that occur within the involuntary muscles underneath the skin. They occur due to a sudden discharge of skeletal muscle fibers. Most fasciculations are benign.
11317	Fascioliasis is defined as a type of infection that is brought about by Trematoda, a certain class of flukes. Otherwise known as Fasciola Gigantica or sheep liver fluke, this condition is present worldwide, specifically in areas where cattle or sheep production is prevalent.
11318	Fatal familial insomnia is a very rare and deadly disease that affects the central nervous system. It results to 'spongiform degeneration' of the neurons inside the brain. It is characterized by extended incubation period, and it can be inherited, sporadic, or result from the intake of some contaminated food.
11319	Cancer-induced fatigue is fatigue characterized by extreme weakness and weight loss due to the effects of cancer in the body. This is a common symptom among people with cancer.
11320	Fatty liver is a condition that involves the accumulation of too much fat in one's liver cells. It's normal for the liver to have some fat; however, if this fat makes up more than ten percent of the weight of the liver, then one has a fatty liver and can develop more grave symptoms. The extra fat can lead to liver inflammation.
11321	Favism, also known as glucose-6 phosphate dehydrogenase deficiency, is an X-linked recessive disease that demonstrates insufficient amounts of the G6PD enzyme. This enzyme is important to red blood cell metabolism. Patients with the disease may suffer from non-immune hemolytic anemia.
11322	Fazio Londe syndrome is an uncommon hereditary 'motor neuron' disorder found in young adults and children. The disease is distinguished by progressive weakness of the muscle that ultimately results to untimely death. Neuromuscular transmission in these muscles might be abnormal due to immature reinervation and rapid denervation. The disease can progress to an affected person's death in as short as nine months, or can have slow evolution.
11323	Febrile convulsions are a kind of convulsion that last only a few minutes. Unlike epileptic convulsions, febrile convulsions are not dangerous. They are caused by body reactions towards infections. They do exhibit the same characteristics as other seizures, such as labored breathing, drooling and clenched teeth.
11324	Febrile seizure usually happens in young kids and babies and it is because of high body temperature and fever. Luckily, when a child or a baby experiences febrile seizure it does not result to damage in the brain or any severe complications. Although, a baby that has febrile seizure should be attended immediately by a physician because the baby has a serious fever in this case. Even though the baby has a fever he need not be admitted but the physician must closely monitor the condition of the baby.
11325	Fecal impaction is the medical term used to describe a solid bulk of stool due to chronic constipation.
11326	The inability to take control of bowel movements which causes the stool to drip from the rectum unexpectedly
11326	Fecal incontinence or Bowel incontinence is the loss of bowel control, resulting in involuntary passage of stool. This can range from an occasional leakage of stool with the passage of gas, to a complete loss of control of bowel movements.
11327	Feer disease, or Swift-Feer disease, refers to mercury poisoning. It is an illness caused by long-term exposure to the metal mercury. This can lead serious health problems in the different body organs such as the liver and gastrointestinal tract.
11328	Feingold syndrome is an extremely uncommon syndrome with several congenital anomalies. The syndrome is characterized largely by gastrointestinal abnormalities, toe and finger deformities, eye abnormities, and a small head. The features of the syndrome share considerable overlap with Vacterl and Vater connections, particularly patients that have esophageal/duodenal atresia.
11329	Feline spongiform encephalopathy is one of the three kinds of Prion diseases that greatly affect humans and animals. It is a contagious disease that triggers the brain's function, making patients exhibit unusual, uncontrollable behaviors. This can be a fatal disease when not immediately treated. Other forms of Prion diseases include mad cow disease, mink encephalopathy, and the bovine spongiform encephalopathy. It is also called "laughing disease".
11330	Felty's syndrome is a result of long-standing rheumatoid arthritis. It is characterized by the presence of rheumatoid arthritis, an enlarged spleen, and low white blood cell count.
11331	Female carrier ALD is an X-linked disorder which affected females carry and transmitted to males. Only males are affected by the disease. ALD stands for adrenoleukodystrophy, a rare genetic defect that deteriorates the adrenal glands. Advanced stages of ALD can cause demyelation of the brain's white matter.
11332	Female infertility accounts for about 40-50 percent of all infertile couples.
11333	Female Pseudo-Turner Syndrome, also known as Noonan syndrome, is a rare hereditary disorder that is usually detected once the patient is born.
11334	Female pseudohermaphroditism is a type of pseudohermaphroditism wherein the affected person is an inherent and 'gonadal' female having partial masculinization. Pseudohermaphroditism is a condition where the affected individual has gonads of one sex, but there's one or more existing contradictions in its morphologic sex criteria. In the case of female pseudohermaphroditism, a person has normal ovary development, internal reproductive tract, and XX karyotype, but they have virilized external or ambiguous genitalia.
11335	Sexual dysfunction in women may involve a reduction in sex drive, a strong dislike of sexual activity, difficulty becoming aroused, inability to achieve orgasm, or pain with sexual activity or intercourse.
11336	Feminisation is a medical condition where physical as well as behavioral female characteristics develop. This becomes an abnormality when the process takes place after sexual differentiation. It can be induced by genetic as well as environmental conditions.
11337	A mother that drinks alcohol during her pregnancy may expose her fetus and may place her baby to a condition of fetal alcohol syndrome (FAS).Negative effects vary from one child to another; severe effects can include serious physical, mental and behavioral problems.
11338	Fetal diethylstilbestrol syndrome is an extremely uncommon syndrome that occurs when a pregnant woman is exposed to a synthetic estrogen called diethylstilbestrol during her pregnancy. Diethylstilbestrol is used for the prevention of complications while pregnant, such as prematurity and miscarriage. Diethylstilbestrol ingestion during pregnancy may lead to cancerous birth defects in daughters of exposed mothers. The defect may not be obvious until the female child reaches maturity.
11339	Fetal face syndrome, also known as Robinow dwarfism, is a rare genetic disorder that is characterized by the infant's short stature due to postnatal growth retardation/
11340	Fetal hydantoin syndrome is an uncommon disorder that's caused by fetal exposure to an anticonvulsant medicine known as phenytoin or Dilantin. Dilantin is a drug commonly administered for treating epilepsy, and approximately one-third of the offspring of mothers who took the drug while pregnant developed minor limb and face defects. Some showed developmental delay, mental retardation, and growth problems.
11341	Fetal methyl mercury syndrome is a condition in which the fetus is exposed to methyl mercury, passed on from mother to fetus via the placenta. Methyl mercury is an 'organometallic cation' and an environmental toxicant categorized as bioaccumulative. Fetal contact to methyl mercury is linked to mild developmental deficits, such as decreased memory function, attention deficit, and lesser IQ.
11342	Fetal thalidomide syndrome primarily results from the utero exposure to thalidomide. This medical condition is typically characterized the anomalies in the mental function and fetal growth, as well as other abnormalities that may include facial, cardiac, limb, kidney, anal, spinal and CNS. Preganant women who are exposed to thalidomide during the first trimester of pregnancy has 10-15% of risk of embryopathy.
11343	Fetal warfarin syndrome is categorized as a very rare disorder tat primary caused by fetal exposure to an anticoagulant known as warfarin that would often result in neurological, physical and mental abnormalities. Patients usually develop nasal hypoplasia and cartilaginous calcification.
11344	Fetishism is a behavioral disorder in which a person becomes obsessed with a particular object of his desire. In some cultures fetishism is a form of religious practice in order to worship gods or deities. In individuals however, this behavior involves an extreme want for a certain item, which, the person deeply identifies him with. Fetishism can be a part of one's sexual fulfillment; others meanwhile regard this behavior as making their life complete.
11345	Also known as pyrexia is a symptom of disease that describes that there is an internal termporary increase in the body core temperature which is above the regular body's thermoregulatory set point usually about 1 - 2 0C.
11346	Fever blisters or cold sores are the small and usually painful bumps or lesions on the skin of the lips, mouth, gum, or the lip area. These blisters occur when a person has Herpes labialis, an infection caused by the herpes simplex virus.
11347	FG syndrome is a rare genetic disorder that causes poor muscle tone, an abnormally large head, and recurring rectal problems.
11348	Also called chronic cystic mastitis, diffuse cystic mastopathy and mammary dysplasia characterized by noncancerous lumps in the breast; roughly 30 - 60 % of women estimated to suffer from this condition.
11349	Fibrodysplasia ossificans progressiva (FOP) is an extremely rare as well as severely disabling type of autosomal dominant disease that is largely characterized by a series of recurrent painful episodes that involves soft tissue swelling along with the growth of tumors in muscle tissue and subcutis. These lesions would often lead to heterotopic ossification, which is true bone tissue development in the ligaments, axial musculature the fascia, the tendons, the aponeurosis, and the joint capsules
11350	Fibroma is mainly a benign tumor which is made of fibrous connective tissues. This is a disease that is seen to be common among children and youngsters. This is found to occur to any part of the body. Generally, it can be categorized into Hard Fibroma or Soft Fibroma. Fibroma types include myxofibroma, pleomorphic fibroma, desmoplasmic fibroma, cemento-ossifying fibroma, cystic fibroma, ossifying fibroma, nonossifying fibroma and many more.
11351	The term fibromatosis specifically refers to the certain group of benign soft tissue tumors that presents particular characteristics that includes the absence of clinical malignant and cytologic features. The histology of fibromatosis is consistent with the proliferation of some well-differentiated fibroblasts, with filtrative growth patterns and rather aggressive clinical behavior. The mass usually be characterized by dense fibrocellular tissues that contain some mature fibrocytes and collagen that may be in various stages of maturation. These mass have atypical features and may have abnormal mitotic activity.
11352	Fibromuscular dysplasia is categorized as a type of angiopathy that greatly affects medium-sized arteries and is observed to be predominant among women of childbearing age. This also affects renal arteries and can possibly cause refractory renovascular hypertension. Medical case reports have shown that Fibromuscular dysplasia also include coronary arteries, the aorta and the pulmonary arteries.
11353	Fibromyalgia is categorized as a chronic condition that is characterized by extensive pain in the ligaments, muscles and tendons. It can also be accompanied by multiple tender points and fatigue. This medical condition is more prevalent among females than male. Although the pain symptoms may vary, this condition may never be able to disappear completely.
11354	Fibromyomas or uterine fibroids are non-cancerous tumors?that develop within or attach to the wall of the female reproductive organ called the uterus.
11355	Fibrosarcoma is characterized as a tumor of the mesenchymal cell origin that is primarily composed of several malignant fibroblasts in collagen background. It typically occurs as a soft-tissue mass or a bone tumor. There are generally two main types of fibroscarcoma: primary and seconday. The former involves a fibroplastic malignancy producing varying amounts of collagen. Secondary fibrosarcoma results from a preexisting lesion.
11356	Fibrosis is a condition wherein there is a thickening of fibrous connective tissues - which is usually caused by an injury. A formation of a scar tissue occurs to replace damaged tissues. There are two main types of fibrosis - one is Pulmonary Fibrosis, while the other is Cystic Fibrosis. In pulmonary fibrosis, there will be an observed hardening or scarring of lung tissue. This is due to an excess in collagen. A variation of this is Idiopathic Pulmonary Fibrosis - with this however, the cause is unknown. In Cystic Fibrosis, it is a chronic disease of the body's mucus glands - where at times it could be fatal.
11357	Fibrous dysplasia is characterized as a type of bone disorder in which case the scar-like tissue gradually develops in place of the bone. So as the bone gets bigger, the fibrous tissue correspondingly expands with it and thereby weakening the bones. This medical condition can result to deformed and brittle bones.
11358	Also commonly called as parvovirus infection or erythema infectiosum is a fifth of the common childhood diseases with similar rashes. Other four are measles, rubella, scarlet fever and duke's disease. With a compromised immune problem or with certain anemia's this disease can be also serious to people.
11359	Filariasis (Philariasis) is a type of an infectious and parasitic disease that is generallycaused by 3 thread-like parasitic filarial worms known as nematode worms, Brugia malayi, Wuchereria bancrofti and Brugia timori, all of which can be transmitted by mosquitoes
11360	Filovirus is a group of viruses that generate hemorrhagic fever. Among the popular kinds of filovirus is the Ebola Marburg disease. It first had an outbreak in Zaire and Sudan in 1984.
11361	Finger fracture, broken wrist, or broken hand is a condition that needs immediate medical attention since it can affect one's ability to perform everyday activities.
11362	Fish tank granuloma is an infectious skin disease caused by the Mycobacterium marinum. In this disease, lesions grow on the skin and result to infections as well as tearing of the skin. The bacteria are commonly found in waters, particularly in swimming pools, and people exposed to salt or fresh water are more susceptible to the disease. Fish tank granuloma can be treated with antibiotics such as doxycyclin, and rifampin.
11363	Fissured tongue characterized as a benign medical condition that often referred to as plicated or scrotal tongue. It is distinguished as a tongue with deep or shallow furrows or grooves causing a rather wrinkled appearance of the tongue. This condition may be congenital and may gradually increase with age.
11364	Fistula is the inflammation of cavities and passages that connect one organ to another. The areas where fistulas are prone to occur are the neck, gall bladder and salivary glands. The inflammation can also take place on the female vaginal cavity. Fistulas can be congenital or acquired, depending on the case.
11364	Fistula is the inflammation of cavities and passages that connect one organ to another. The areas where fistulas are prone to occur are the neck, gall bladder and salivary glands. The inflammation can also take place on the female vaginal cavity. Fistulas can be congenital or acquired, depending on the case.
11365	Fitz-Hugh-Curtis syndrome is characterized by pain that is typically felt on the right upper quadrant that is a result of an ascending infection of the pelvis and inflammation of the diaphragm or liver capsule. This medical condition is typically associated with another disease called acute salpingitis and usually mimics typical abdominal emergencies. Since there are a number of possibilities that may be associated with the symptoms of this disease, proper diagnosis is required to rule out other possibilities.
11366	Fitzsimmons-Guilbert syndrome is considered as an extremely rare genetic disease that is characterized by a considerably slow progressive spastic paraplegia, along with skeletal anomalies of the feet and hand with brachydactyly type E. This also comes with cone-shaped epiphyses, sternal anomaly, abnormal metaphyseal-phalangeal pattern profile, mild intellectual deficit and dysarthria. To date, there are only three reported cases of this disease, two of which suffered from severe mental retardation.
11367	A flaky scalp is usually a result of dandruff, a chronic condition wherein the skin on the scalp flakes off in unusually large amounts. A flaky scalp may be due to fungal development on the skin, or excess secretion from the scalp's sebaceous glands. Flaky scalps can be treated with a medicated shampoo.
11368	Flatfeet or also known as Pes planovalgus, is a condition where the arch or instep of the foot collapses and comes in contact with the ground. This arch never develops in some individuals.
11369	Flatulence or flatus is passing of intestinal gas which generally everyone passes gas at least 12 times or more. Flatus usually isn't serious, but sometimes unexpelled gas can cause intense, intermittent pain in the abdominal region.
11370	Flavimonas oryzihabitans is considered to be a very uncommon bacterial infection that typically occurs in immunocompromised patients or those who are required to use catheters. Flavimonas oryzihabitans was previously named Pseudomonas oryzihabitans. Pseudomonas is a non-fermenting, ixidase-negative and gram negative bacillus which is normally found in sink drains, rice paddies and constantly damp environments.
11371	Flea bits are itchy spots that occur on the skin due to bites of parasitic insects called fleas.
11372	Flesh eating bacteria is a very rare but very serious bacterial infection medically known as necrotizing fasciitis. This type of infection typically starts in the body tissues that are just below the skin and gradually spreads along the different layers of body tissues such as fat and muscle. This is considered as a highly dangerous infection and is usually found on the legs, arms and abdominal wall, making it a very fatal medical condition.
11373	Floating-Harbor syndrome is a rare genetic disease that usually features a short stature among infants. Affected children suffer from delayed bone age, slow development of expressive language abilities, and a triangular shaped face. It is an autosomal dominant disorder that was first described in 1973.
11374	Floppy valve syndrome or also known as Mitral valve prolapse is characterized by the displacement of an abnormally thickened mitral valve leaflet into the left atrium during systole. MVP, in its nonclassis form, carries a low risk of complications. Severe cases of MVP though may include complications such as infective endocarditis, regurgitation and in rare circumstances, cardiac arrest that usually results to sudden death. The term for the disease was coined by J. Michael Criley in 1966. It gained acceptance over JB Barlow's ?billowing? of the mitral valve description. MVP has different subtypes namely classic, nonclassic, symmetric, asymmetric, flail or non-flail. The subtypes are based on the leaflet thickness, convacity and type of connection to the mitral annulus.
11375	Flourosis is actually not a medical disorder, not more of a cosmetic condition. Quite often, the condition is so mild, only professional dentists are able to detect it. This is largely brought about by the excessive fluoride in the body that can become a disruptive agent in enamel formation of the teeth. This can cause some minor discoloration or teeth surface irregularities.
11376	Influenza or flu is a viral infection that attacks the respiratory system including the nose, throat, bronchial tubes, and lungs. Though it is commonly called flu, influenza is not the same virus that causes diarrhea and vomiting.
11377	Flynn-Aird syndrome is an extremely rare genetic disorder that is characterized by gradual neurological degeneration that is associated with symptoms such as ataxia, dementia, eye problems, muscle wasting and skin disorders.
11378	Focal dystonia or the neurological condition that affects the muscle or muscles of the body, is thought to start in the thin tissue wrapped around the brain.
11379	Focal seizures, or partial seizures, are a kind of seizures in which only a small part of the brain is affected. It is usually a precursor of a bigger seizure such as a tonic-clonic seizure. Focal seizures are divided into two types; complex partial seizures and simple partial seizures. Focal seizures are as well common in temporal lobe epilepsy.
11380	Foix-Alajouanine syndrome is a spinal cord disease (a rare type). Foix-Alajouanine syndrome is a disorder caused by an arteriovenous malformation of the spinal cord. This often results to painful paralysis and muscle tone loss. It commonly afflicts people ages 20 to 40 years. If not promptly and properly treated, death may result within one to two years.
11381	Foix-Chavany-Marie syndrome is a partial paralysis on the face, the pharynx and the jaw. Affected areas are still capable of certain movements like eating, smiling, and facial movements. Upper and lower limbs are usually unaffected. This syndrome is caused by blood supply loss or interruption in a specific part of the brain. This condition is also called bilateral anterior opercular syndrome. It was discovered in the year 1926 by Charles Foix, Jean Alfred â•”mile Chavany and Julien Marie.
11382	Folate deficiency refers to the insufficient amount of folic acid in the body. The effects of folate deficiency are often subtle.
11383	Folate-deficiency anemia, classified under vitamin deficiency anemia, is the decrease in red blood cells caused by folate deficiency.
11384	Follicular lymphoma (FL) is a certain type of non-Hodgkin lymphoma (NHL) which is most common among the group (about one in four reported cases). It is a lymphoma (or cancer) of the B-lymphocytes. Average age of patients are in their sixty's but it can occur at anytime in one's adult life. It is both commonly equal in women and men.
11385	Infection of the hair follicles is called folliculitis. It is characterized by the appearance of the small, white headed pimples around one or more hair follicles which are superficial in most cases of infections.
11386	Folling disease, also known as phenylketonuria (PKU), is a rare metabolic defect characterized by mental incapacities and eventual brain damage.
11387	While there are some people who have bad reactions to certain food, the real food allergy is actually triggered by the body's immune system and is known to be a rare condition. The hypersensitivity to food can cause a number of serious problem and can even lead to death.
11388	Food intolerance is an adverse reaction of the body to certain foods. A person may experience sudden reactions such as spasms, abdominal pain and weakness each time he consumes a certain kind of meal. This may be caused by an enzyme deficiency which should function to accommodate the food in the body's digestive tract. Food intolerance should not be confused with food allergy since it is not an autoimmune reaction.
11389	Food poisoning is an illness resulting from eating foods contaminated with viruses and bacteria. Depending on the kind of strain ingested by the victim, food poisoning can result to life-threatening diseases such as hepatitis A and dehydration.
11390	Foodborne illnesses are any kind of illness associated with consumption of contaminated food. It is also known as food poisoning.
11391	Sometimes called drop foot, foot drop is a general term used to describe the difficulty in lifting the front part of the foot and cases of dragging the front of the foot on the ground when walking. Foot drop is a sign of an underlying cause such as neurological, muscular, or anatomical problem and is not a disease.
11392	Foot ulcers are lesions that can lead to serious neuropathy when left untreated. This is commonly experienced by patients with diabetes.
11393	Forbes Disease occurs in 1 for every 100,000 live births. It is also called Cori's type III glycogenosis. It was Gerty Theresa Radnitz Cori and Gilbert Burnett Forbes who developed an accurate description of this condition. This rare disease is due to a missing enzyme which causes abnormal glycogen levels to be absorbed by the body, namely the liver and the skeleton musculature.
11394	Normal large, superficial sebaceous (oil-producing) glands seen on the moist tissue that lines some organs and body cavities (mucosal surfaces) are called Fordyce spots. Most commonly found at the border of the lips, the inner foreskin and on the head of the penis, the spots are asymptomatic. The lesions are also asymptomatic, but irritation or itching may happen if people treat the bumps inappropriately.
11395	Also known as Diffuse idiopathic skeletal hyperostosis (DISH), Forestier's disease is the hardening of the tendons and ligaments that commonly affects the spine. Some people may experiences Forestier's disease beyond the spine since it can also affect tendons and ligaments in the heels, ankles, knees, hips, shoulders, elbows and hands.
11396	Formaldehyde is a highly toxic and flammable gas (when at room temperature). It has an irritating and penetrating odor that may or may not be easily detected. It is more commonly used for formalin solutions. Exposure to and contamination from harmful concentrations of this substance can cause Formaldehyde poisoning.
11397	Fountain syndrome is extremely rare. It is a disorder which can be inherited. It is autosomal recessive. It is observed to be more common in men than in women.
11398	A rare disorder, Fox-Fordyce disease becomes a problem for most women who fall between ages 13 to 35 years. Males and young children may also develop this medical problem. Fox-Fordyce Disease is also called 'sweat retention disease' and 'apocrine duct occlusion'.
11399	Greenstick fracture occurs when the bone cracks but does not break all the way through. This condition is common among children since a child's bones are more flexible and softer.
11400	Growth plates are the softer parts of a child's bones located at each end of the bone, where growth occurs. Growth plates are the weakest sections of the skeleton and since they are very fragile, an injury that would result in a joint sprain for an adult can cause a fracture in a child.
11401	Tiny cracks in a bone are called stress fractures and are most common in the weight-bearing bones of the lower leg and foot. Particularly susceptible to stress fractures are track and field athletes but anyone can experience the condition.
11402	A fractured femur is an injury of the thigh bone. The femur is one of the strongest bones of the human skeleton, and it connects the hip and knee joints.
11403	Fragile X Syndrome is a defect in the X chromosome. This condition is the cause of mental retardation in people. People with defective X chromosomes exhibit various signs and symptoms. Those who have this body condition possess chromosomes which are fragile, prone to tear and break downs. Fragile X syndrome affects 1 in every 2,000 males.
11404	Frambesia, also known as yaws, is a chronic infectious disease common in places with tropical climate. It often affects children below 15 years of age.
11405	Francois Dyscephalic Syndrome is also known as the Hallermann-Streiff syndrome and the Oculomandibulofacial Syndrome. This is a disorder which greatly affects one's body stature, the head structure, and also hair growth. Patients who suffer from this kind of condition are often shorter than average people. They may be unable to develop facial hair and hair in other places such as the legs and the pubic areas. Many others have persisting problems with teeth development with some only developing one set in a lifetime.
11406	Fraser Syndrome is also called Cryptophthalmos-syndactyly syndrome. It is a rare genetic disorder with abnormalities that include that of the head, the lungs, the kidneys, and the limbs. Malformations are a combination of acrofacial and urogenital ones which may be with cryptophthalmos or without.
11407	FRAXA Syndrome (also, Fragile X) is a cause of mental retardation most commonly inherited by males in the family. It is the most commonly observed cause of autism.
11408	Freeman-Sheldon Syndrome is a multiple congenital contracture syndrome. It is the rarest of all MCC syndromes and is the most severe among forms of distal arthrogryposis. Freeman-Sheldon Syndrome is also called whistling-face syndrome and distal arthrogryposis type 2A (DA2A
11409	Frey's syndrome is also known as Frey-Baillarger syndrome, Dupuy's syndrome, and Baillarger's syndrome. It is food related and can be congenital and also non-congenital. Some cases of this condition may persist for life.
11410	Friedreich's Ataxia is inherited. It damages the body's nervous system, the damage being of a progressive nature. It was Nicholaus Friedreich who in the 1860's named the condition "Ataxia" to mean coordination problems like clumsiness and unsteadiness. Continual degeneration of nerve tissues in one's spinal cord causes it to thin overtime. This condition also affects nerves responsible for arm and leg muscle movements.
11411	Frigidity, also known as inhibited sexual desire (ISD), is a manifestation of sexual aversion. It is a condition where a person no longer reacts responsively to sexual stimuli. Persons who are thought to be frigid show signs of indifference towards sexual intercourse.
11412	Froelich's syndrome is an acquired medical condition involving endocrine abnormalities especially in the hypothalamus. Often associated with tumors in the hypothalamus, this syndrome commonly affects males only. It usually manifests during childhood, especially during puberty with occasional reports during the postadolescent period. Froelich's syndrome is also known by other synonyms such as Adiposogenital Dystrophy, Babinski-Froelich Syndrome, Dystrophia Adiposogenitalis, Frolich's Syndrome, Hypothalamic Infantilism-Obesity, Launois-Cleret Syndrome, and Sexual Infantilism.
11413	The second most common type of epilepsy after temporal lobe epilepsy, Frontal lobe epilepsy is similar to temporal lobe epilepsy because it is a type of focal seizure, which means that the seizure starts in a focal area of the brain, commonly referred to as the focus. Frontal lobe epilepsy means that the focus is located in the frontal lobe.
11414	The second most common type of epilepsy after temporal lobe epilepsy, Frontal lobe seizures is similar to temporal lobe epilepsy because it is a type of focal seizure, which means that the seizure starts in a focal area of the brain, commonly referred to as the focus. Frontal lobe epilepsy means that the focus is located in the frontal lobe.
11415	Frontotemporal demential is considered to be a clinical syndrome wherein the cause of the condition is due to a degeneration of the brain's frontal lobe and extends to the temporal lobe. This syndrome can occur in patients diagnosed with a motor neuron disease such as amyotrophic lateral sclerosis or ALS. It often occurs in people of young age. When FTD is diagnosed together with MND, the prognosis is worse.
11415	Frontotemporal dementia is a general umbrella medical term to a diverse group of rare disorders that primarily affects the temporal and frontal lobes of the brain. These are the areas that are generally associated with individual personality and behavior. It usually affects the younger people and are known to undergo very rapid changes in the personality and usually become socially inappropriate.
11416	Frontotemporal lobar degeneration (FTLD) is a pathologic process involving degeneration of gray matter in the frontal lobe and anterior part of the temporal lobe of the cerebrum, with sparing of the parietal and occipital lobes.
11417	Frostbite, known in medicine as congelatio, is a condition characterized by damage to the skin and other tissue caused by exposure to extremely low temperatures, particularly temperatures below the freezing point.
11418	Frozen shoulder, also called adhesive capsulitis, is a condition marked by stiffness and pain in your shoulder joint. As the condition progresses, the shoulder's range of motion becomes markedly reduced. Frozen shoulder typically affects one shoulder at a time, although some people may eventually develop frozen shoulder in the opposite shoulder.
11419	Fructose intolerance is also known as fructose poisoning which is a condition that can be inherited. This disorder is marked by a liver enzymes deficiencies specifically those responsible to metabolize fructose. Another name for the disorder is hereditary fructosemia.
11420	This disorder is also known as essential fructosuria and hereditary fructosuria often seen in children. It is caused by a hepatic fructokinase deficiency which leads to excretion of fructose in urine. Fructosuria is a benign condition, since fructose is not broken down to glucose; it is simply excreted out of the system in urine. Fructosuria is unlike Fructosemia which means fructose in the blood. The latter is a more serious condition that can cause growth abnormalities and even coma in some severe cases. Unlike fructosuria, fructose in Fructosemia is converted to fructose-1-phosphate which uses up the body's ATP stores. This will prevent the proper release of glucose from glycogen, uses up the free phosphate available in the body, and causes uric acid levels to rise.
11421	Dissociative fugue is a rare condition in which a person suddenly, without planning or warning, travels far from home or work and leaves behind his or her past life. Patients show signs of amnesia and have no conscious understanding or knowledge of the reason for their leave. The condition is usually linked with severe stress or trauma. Since persons cannot remember all or part of their past, at some point they become confused about their identity and the situations in which they find themselves. In rare cases, they may adopt on new identities. `
11422	Acute liver failure (or fulminant liver failure) is the appearance of severe complications rapidly after the first signs of liver disease (such as jaundice), and indicates that the liver has sustained severe damage (loss of function of 80-90% of liver cells).
11423	Fumarylacetoacetase deficiency disease is a rare metabolic disorder in which the blood and urine lack a certain kind of enzyme called tyrosine. Tyrosine is one of the enzymes needed by the body to perform normal body functions. Fumarylacetoacetase deficiency disease one of the three types of tyrosine deficiency disorders: Type I tyrosinemia is characterized by episodic lethargy, bleeding, hepatic necrosis and seizures due to the lack of fumarylacetoacetase.
11424	An infection of nail fungus develops when fungi infect one or more of the nails. A nail fungal infection may begin as a white or yellow spot under the tip of the fingernail or toenail. As the nail fungus spreads deeper into the nail, it may result to nail discoloration, thickening and developing of crumbling edges - an unsightly and potentially painful problem.
11425	Fungal meningitis is the swelling of the brain tissue and the spinal cord. It usually develops on persons with weak immune systems.
11426	Funnel chest is a congenital deformity wherein several ribs grow in such a way that they produce a sunken appearance of the chest. This abnormal development usually begins during puberty.
11427	G6PD is an inherited disorder wherein the body's cells are unable to produce a sufficient amount of the enzyme glucose-6 phosphate dehydrogenase or G6PD. This enzyme is important in supporting the red blood cells in their activities. This deficiency may lead to hemolytic anemia especially when the patient is exposed to certain drugs and infections.
11428	A galactocele is a cystic tumor in the breast that contains a milky substance, or even milk. This disorder usually occurs when lactation has already ceased.
11429	Galactokinase deficiency is also known as GALK deficiency or Galactosemia type 2. This disorder is marked by the accumulation of galactitol and galactose in the body due to the decreased conversion of galactose to galactose-1-phosphate by the enzyme galactokinase.
11430	Galactorrhea is otherwise known as the spontaneous discharge of milk unrelated to pregnancy or nursing. It is defined by Contemporary Maternal-Newborn Nursing Care as "nipple discharge".
11431	Galactose-1-phosphate uridyltransferase deficiency is also known as the first of three types of Galactosemia or otherwise called classic galactosemia. Since galactose is converted through the action of three enzymes, any deficiency in either of these enzymes would lead to galactosemia. Classic galactosemia or galactosemia type 1 is brought about by a deficiency in one of the three enzymes in the Leloir pathway known as Galactose-1-phosphate uridyltransferase or GALT. GALT is responsible for converting galactose into usable glucose in the body.
11432	Galactosemia is a rare congenital metabolic disorder which undermines the affected individual's ability to properly metabolize galactose, one of the sugars found in dairy products. The disorder was first described in 1917 by Goppert, and later fully identified in 1956 by a group led by Herman Kalckar. The incidence ratio of classic type galactosemia is 1 per 47,000 births. Glactosemia is often confused with lactose intolerance. However, galactosemia is a worse condition. Individuals with lactose intolerance have an inherited shortage of the enzyme lactase. These individuals experience abdominal pains after ingesting lactose products but don't have long term effects. In galactosemia, individuals who are afflicted with this disorder tend to have permanent damage to their bodies.
11433	Gall bladder disease is characterized by the infection, inflammation, or obstruction of the gallbladder. Gall bladder disease is also alternatively known as gallbladder attack, biliary disease, or biliary colic.
11434	Gallbladder cancer is a rare type of cancer that affects the gallbladder in particular and the biliary tract in general. The gallbladder, along with the bile duct, is responsible for transporting bile. Cancerous gallbladder tumors are called adenocarcinomas, which commonly develop in the inner surface of the gallbladder. These adenocarcinomas are extremely invasive, rapidly penetrating deep into the gallbladder and spreading from the inner surface to the outer surface of the gallbladder. If untreated, the cancer can spread to lymph nodes or travel through the bloodstream and invade other parts of the body.
11435	Galloway Mowat syndrome is a rare genetic disorder found to on autosomal recessive genes. There are many varieties of Galloway Mowat syndrome. It is also known as Hiatal Hernia - Microcephaly - Neprhosis, Galloway Type; Microcephaly-Hiatal Hernia-Nephrosis, Galloway Type; Nephrosis-Microcephaly Syndrome; Nephrosis-Neuronal Dysmigration Syndrome; and Microcephaly-Hiatal Hernia-Nephrotic Syndrome. This disease is characterized by the onset of nephritic syndrome and central nervous system anomalies at an early age.
11436	Gamstorp episodic adynamy is the name taken by Hyperkalemic periodic paralysis (HYPP) when it occurs in humans. Usually, HYPP (known as Impressive Syndrome as well), is a disorder that affects the channels for sodium in the muscle cells, and incapacitates regulation of potassium in the blood. This disorder, with autosomal dominant inheritance, is also a disease that affects horses.
11437	Ganglioglioma, otherwise known as Gangliocytoma, is a disease characterized by the presence of rare tumors. These tumors grow from ganglion cells in the area of the central nervous system, primarily composed of the brain and the spinal cord. Ganglion cells are another way of calling neurons that are found in the brain, some of them found in specific perceptive centers. Mature ganglion cells become clustered with neoplastic glial cells, forming these gangliogliomas.
11438	Known as "bible bump" is a swelling that often appears on or around joints and tendons in the hand or foot. The size of the cyst can change over time, often becoming more inflamed if irritated. It is often located around the wrist and on the fingers.
11439	Complication of necrosis which is the 'cell death' characterized by the decay of body tissues, which become black and malodorous. It caused by infection or ischemia, such as from thrombosis (blocked blood vessel).
11440	Ganser syndrome is a dissociative disorder wherein an individual uncontrollably mimics another person's behavior. Persons with this kind of disorder usually give nonsensical answers to questions. The disease is also called pseudodementia or prison psychosis.
11441	Gardner's syndrome is a disease characterized by the growth of polyps in the colon accompanied by tumors outside the colon. The tumors found in the areas which are away from the colon may range from thyroid cancer, fibromas, sebaceous cysts, osteomas in the skull, and epidermoid cysts. The polyps found within the colon are indicators of the likely progression of the condition to colon cancer.
11442	Gas, or flatulence, is the release of excessive amounts of gas present in the digestive tract. Gastrointestinal gas is made up of swallowed nitrogen and oxygen, as well as methane, hydrogen and carbon dioxide. When gases are unable to be digested, they end up being released as flatus. Flatulence gives of foul smell due to sulfur compounds that were released by the body. Gas in the stomach and intestines may cause abdominal pain and distention.
11443	Gas is created in the digestive tract due to swallowing air and the breaking of foods by bacteria that are found in the colon. Gas is eliminated by burping or passing gas.
11444	These are air bubbles that can get trapped in the stomach and/or passed on to the intestine.
11445	Gastric cancer pertains to cancer of the stomach. Adenocarcinomas, lymphomas, carcinoid tumors, and gastrointestinal stromal tumors (GISTs) are the most common types of gastric cancer.
11446	Gastric dumping syndrome, otherwise known as rapid gastric emptying, occurs when the small intestine's lower end, called the jejunum, fills up too fast with undigested food routed from the stomach. Rapid gastric emptying is experienced in two forms: early dumping commences after the meal or during the meal, while late dumping occurs about 1 to 3 hours after the meal. Early dumping is usually linked to difficulty in digesting fats. Late dumping, on the other hand, is associated with difficulty in digesting carbohydrates.
11447	Rapid gastric emptying, also known as dumping syndrome, occurs when undigested food empties too quickly into the small intestine.
11448	Gastric erosion is the inflammation of the stomach lining. It is a minor ulcer in the innermost part of the stomach. When left untreated, it becomes a gastric ulcer.
11449	Primary gastric lymphoma is a rare condition whereby a lymphoma originates from the stomach. This condition accounts for less than 15% of gastric conditions, and only 2% of all lymphomas. However, because of the fact that the stomach is an extremely usual site for lymphomas that originate in other organs that are in metastasis to the stomach, the stomach is one of the most likely sources of the growth of lymphomas in other areas in the gastrointestinal tract. With metastasis, the organ from where the lymphoma originates is not adjacent to the stomach, but nonetheless the disease is spread by travel in the bloodstream (lymphoma is a cancer originating from a type of white blood cells or lymphocytes).
11450	Inflammation of the gastric mucosa of the stomach. Depending on the cause, gastritis may persist acutely or chronically and may coincide with more serious condition such as atrophy of the stomach.
11451	Also known as gastro, gastric flu, and stomach flu. It refers to inflammation of the gastrointestinal tract, involving both the stomach and the small intestine resulting to acute diarrhea.
11452	Eosinophilic gastroenteritis is a condition first documented in 1937 by Kaijser. It manifests as the diffuse eosinophilic infiltration in the tissues of the gastrointestinal tract, usually with chronic relapses. Any point of the gastrointestinal tract may contract this condition, and how it manifests depends on the extent of the involvement of the bowel wall. Common areas of the GI tract that are affected are the stomach, the small intestine, and the colon.
11453	Gastrointestinal anthrax is a disease formed when the anthrax bacteria attacks the gastrointestinal system. This disrupts the function of the digestive tract leading to stomach poisoning and eventual death.
11454	Gastrointestinal basidiobolomycosis is a rare disease caused by fungi. It is characterized by a painless lump underneath the stomach lining, which eventually causes abdominal pain and swelling. It can also cause the development of elephantiasis. The lump that grew on the abdomen may block the lymph nodes causing problems in the bloodstream. The inflammation can be treated by surgical removal of the lump as well as ketoconazole to reduce swelling.
11455	Gastrointestinal bleeding is a form of hemorrhage that occurs in the gastrointestinal tract, reaching from the pharynx down to the rectum. The bleeding can be very life-threatening.
11456	These are rare tumor of the gastrointestinal tract also known 'GIST'. GIST is a form of joint tissue cancer or sarcoma. GISTs are therefore non-epithelial tumors, separate from common forms of bowel cancer.
11457	Gastrointestinal stromal tumors are rare, benign growths in the gastrointestinal tract.
11458	Gastroparesis happens when the muscles in the stomach are not properly functioning which prevents an individual from emptying properly.
11458	Gastroparesis, also known as delayed gastric emptying, is a medical condition consisting of a paresis (partial paralysis) of the stomach ("gastro-"), resulting in food remaining in the stomach for a longer period of time than normal. Normally, the stomach contracts to move food down into the small intestine to digest, while the vagus nerve controls these contractions. Gastroparesis occurs when the vagus nerve is damaged and the muscles of the stomach and intestines do not function normally. Food then moves gradaully or stops moving through the digestive tract.
11459	Gaucher disease is the disease of the lysosome, resulting from the deficiency of the glucocerebrosidase disease resulting in accumulation of its fatty substrate, glucocerebroside. This causes fat to accumulate in the brain, bone marrow, liver, lungs, kidneys, and spleen. People with Gaucher disease are prone to infection. Named after Philippe Gaucher, a French physician who originally described the disease in 1882, the disease is now known to be an autosomal recessive inheritance. Type I is most common (1 in 50,000 births), usually occurring among Ashkenazi Jewish people. Type II manifests beginning 6 months after birth, occurring in 1 in 100,000 live births. Type IIIbegins at any time in life, and occurs in 1 in 100,000 live births.
11460	Gaucher disease is a commonly found lysosomal storage disorder, resulting from the deficiency of the glucocerebrosidase enzyme. The absence of this enzyme allows the collection of fatty material in organs like the brain, bone marrow, kidneys, spleen, lungs, and liver. The disease was originally described by French physician Philippe Gaucher in 1882. Type I, occurring in early life, occurs in 1 in 50, 000 live births and is most common among the Ashkenazi Jews. Type II, occurs in 1 in 100,000 live births, usually begins to manifest after 6 months of birth. Type III can begin at any time in life, and manifests in 1 in 100,000 live births.
11461	Gaucher disease was first described in 1882 by Philippe Gaucher. Today, this is the most common lysosomal storage diseases, resulting in deficiency in glucocerebrosidase. As a result, fatty material settles in the liver, lung, spleen, brain, bone marrow, and kidneys. Type I which occurs in 1 out of 50,000 live births is most common among Ashkenazi Jews and usually manifest early in life or in adulthood. Type II Gaucher disease occurs in 1 out of 100,000 live births manifests after 6 months of age. Type III manifests in 1 out of 100,000 people as well, and occurs at any point in a person's life.
11462	First described in 1882 by French physician Philippe Gaucher, Gaucher disease is one of today's most common lysosomal storage diseases. As a result of the lack of the enzyme glucocerebrosidase, fatty materials accumulate in the brain, bone marrow, liver, lung, spleen and the kidneys. This disease is characterized by autosomal recessive inheritance, and as such, is equally likely to affect both male and female individuals.
11463	Geleophysic dwarfism is known by other names, the more popular one being Acromicric dysplasia. This disease that results in a combination of bodily deformities is an extremely rare disorder that is hereditary and inheritable in nature.
11464	Gelineau disease, otherwise called narcolepsy, is a neurological disorder that causes excessive daytime sleepiness or EDS. The patient may experience disturbed sleep, which might be mistaken for insomnia or other rapid-eye movement (REM) disorders.
11465	Gender identity disorder is a mental illness in which a person shifts from his/her physiological gender identity to that of the opposite sex.
11466	Generalized anxiety disorder (GAD) is an anxiety disorder that is marked by excessive, uncontrollable and often irrational worry about everyday things, which is disproportionate to the actual source of worry. This excessive worry often interferes with daily functioning, as individuals suffering GAD usually catastrophise, anticipate disaster, and are overly concerned about everyday matters such as health issues, money, family problems, friend problems or work difficulties.
11467	Genetic disorders are genetic anomalies that are usually associated with diseases encoded in the genetic material of cells since the conception of a child. Some forms of these genetic disorders are a result of abnormalities due to errors in cell division, causing either a lack of an X or a Y chromosome, or an excess of one. Klinefelter's syndrome results from a male with 2 X chromosomes, and Down's syndrome results from having an extra chromosome 21. At the moment, some 4,000 genetic disorders have been discovered so far. This is a result of the most genetic disorders being rare, usually present in one in some thousand people. One of the more common genetic diseases is cystic fibrosis, with about 5% of the American population carrying a copy of the gene carrying the disease.
11468	Genital herpes is a highly contagious (STD) sexually transmitted disease.
11469	Genital system cancer is the collective term for cancers that affect the organs in the genital system. Included in this group are vaginal cancer, penis cancer and vulva cancer.
11470	Highly contagious sexually transmitted infection. Genital warts often occur in clusters and can be carry tiny or can spread into large masses in the genital or penis area. For women they occur on the outside and inside of the vagina on the opening (cervix) to the womb (uterus) or around anus.
11471	Genu varum is a physical deformity often called "bow-leggedness" as it manifests as an outward curving of the legs, with great resemblance to a bow. This is characterized by the deformity in both the femur and tibia. It is important to note that if the curvature is only found on the tibia and not on the femur, the deformity is Blount's disease and not Genu varum. All children are bow-legged to some extent at birth. However, over the first year, the knee joints join together and come closer to each other, and the femur begins to slope downward towards the joints. The tibia tends to straighten out as the foot soles face downwards. In the process, the bones ossify. By the time a child is ready to walk; the limbs are already formed and shaped to give the body weight sufficient support.
11472	Genuphonia is an abnormal, persistent and irrational fear of knees or kneeling. Other names are fear or knee, fear of knees, knee fear, knee phobia, knees fear, knees phobia, phobia of knee and or phobia of knees. It is a persistent fear of knees that a person forces himself to avoid.
11473	Geographical tongue results when the layer of small bumps called papillae that cover the tongue are missing. If the papillae are missing, it creates smooth patches of red in the tongue; it can also show an appearance that like a map.
11474	Gastroesophageal reflux disease, known by the moniker GERD, is a disease characterized by damage resulting from an abnormal acid reflux into the esophagal track. This is usually a result of the barrier between the stomach and the esophagus changing.
11475	Gerhardt disease is a rare muscoskeletal condition characterized by intense pain and severe redness of the feet. It is also known as erythromelalgia.
11476	German measles, commonly known as rubella, is a disease caused by Rubella virus.
11477	It is medically known as Rubella. German measles is not the same as measles. German measles is not the same with measles because they are caused by different viruses. It is not contagious nor it is severe that is why it is also called the three-day measles.
11478	German Syndrome is a rare disorder affected by fetal exposure to trimethadione or the anticonvulsant drug which results in different kinds of physical and developmental abnormalities. It is found among infants who were born to epileptic mothers that are being treated with trimethadione for seizures during their pregnancy period. This is also known as Fetal Trimethadione Syndrome.
11479	Germinal mosaicism is a rare autosomal dominant disease in which neither parent has the disease. It is a sporadic genetic disease in which one of the parent gamete cells is defective, but their normal cells are not. Mosaic Downs syndrome is a kind of germinal mosaicism. Parents are advised to undergo genetic counseling to see how the effects of the disease can be reduced.
11480	A neurological disorder differentiate by four symptoms: inability to write, inability to calculate, an inability to make distinction between right from left, and the inability to identify fingers. This illness can sometimes be confused with Gerstmann-StrÎ£ ussler-Scheinker disease, which is a type of transmissible spongiform encephalopathy.
11481	Gerstmann-StrÎ£ussler-Scheinker syndrome (GSS) is a rare, deadly neurodegenerative disease that affects people between ages 20 and 60. GSS is classified as a transmissible spongiform encephalopathy (TSE).
11482	Gestational diabetes mellitus or Gestational diabetes is a diabetis that women during their level of pregnancy acquire exhibiting high blood glucose. It is the glucose intolerance in any degree which is found during the pregnancy. The patient may have gotten the diabetes mellitus previously without knowing. It may have also been aquired during the time that they are pregnant.
11483	Gestational Pemphigoid or Pemphigoid Gestationis is an autoimmune disease that affects the skin by blisters for pregnant women during their second and third trimesters. It is not linked with herps virus though it was then called Herps Gestationis because of the blisters that appear in the skin.
11484	Gestational trophoblastic disease is a group of many other diseases that are all involved with the abnormal growth of cells in the uterus. It does not grow from the cells of the uterus. These are rare but treatable tumors that start in the tissues and they develop after the conception when the egg fertilizes the sperm. There are four types of gestational trophoblastic disease: Hydatidiform mole, persistent/invasive trophoblastic disease, choriocarcinoma and placental site trophoblastic tumors.
11485	Giant Axonal Neuropathy is an uncommon, autosomal recessive neurogical syndrome that affects the neurofilaments and at the same time disorganizes it. A structural frame is being formed by the neurofilament to help characterize neurons shapes and sizes which are necessary for the nerve to function normally.
11486	Giant cell arteritis which is also called temporal arteritis is a disease the affects the blood vessels commonly the large and medium arteries in the head by inflammation. The name temporal artiritis come from the most involved vessel, which is the temporal artery. The giant cell arteritis was given because it reflects the type of inflammatory cell that is involved which can be seen on the biopsy.
11487	Giant lymph node hyperplasia (also known as Castleman's disease or CD) is a rare, benign disease involving lymph nodes in different locations, predominantly in the mediastinum. This disorder is marked by non-cancerous growths (tumors) that may develop in the lymph node tissue at a single site or throughout the body. It involves hyperproliferation of certain B cells that typically produce cytokines.
11488	Conjunctivitis is most commonly known as the "pink eye". But in the UK, it is called the "red eye" or "Madras eye" for those from India. It is the allergic reaction or a bacterial or viral infection that affects the eyes outermost layer and also the eyelids innermost surface.
11489	Giant platelet syndrome, also known as Bernard-Soulier disease, is a disorder found in newborn infants. In this condition the blood platelets fail to stick to the walls to the blood vessels, affecting the ability to clot properly. It can be a cause for abnormal bleeding.
11490	Giardia infection is an intestinal infection characterized by stomach cramps, bloating, nausea and bouts of watery diarrhea.
11491	Giardia lamblia is a protozoan that causes the disease giardiasis. It thrives in the digestive system as cysts and cause infections in the intestinal tract.
11492	Giardiasis is a condition wherein the flagellate protozoan Giardia lamblia resides in the digestive tract of both animals and humans. This condition also is the most common cause for gastroenteritis.
11493	Gigantism is a condition wherein the human body grows excessively in height and weight during childhood, before the bone growth plates close, causing a person to live with overgrown bones.
11494	Gilbert's syndrome is a benign disease characterized by jaundice, and is also the main cause for increased amounts of bilirubin in the bloodstream. The disease affects 5% of the population.
11495	Gilles de la Tourette's syndrome is one of the tic disorders, characterized by numerous physical tics, and at least one vocal tic. It is hereditary neuropsychiatric condition, which begins in early childhood.
11496	Gingivitis, also known as inflammation of the gums, is a group of diseases that affect the gingival, or the gums. Its most common term, inflammation of the gums, is called so due to the occurrence when plaque or bacterial biofilms stick to the surfaces of the tooth.
11497	Gingivostomatitis is a condition similar to cold sores. This form of herpes is common among children.
11498	Gitelman syndrome is a rare autosomal-recessive disease characterized by a defective functioning in the kidneys' distal convoluted tubule. This defect causes prevents magnesium, sodium, potassium and chloride from being absorbed by the bloodstream and is instead is released into the urine. The disease is also a variant of the Bartter's syndrome.
11499	Gittings or Gitelman Syndrome is an inherited defect in the distal convoluted tubule of the kidneys.
11500	The disease usually infects horses and mules though it can also infect other animals and humans. In laboratory settings, human infection usually happen or from prolong contact with animals that are contaminated.
11501	Glandular fever, also known as infectious mononucleosis, is a disease that thrives in the saliva. When not treated, it can cause serious damages to the blood, liver and spleen.
11502	Glanzmann's thrombasthenia is a rare blood disease characterized by a decrease of the glycoprotein llb/lla in the platelets. This results in prolonged, sometimes severe bleeding. The condition is also characterized by a complete absence of platelet aggregation.
11503	Glaucoma is a group of diseases of the optic nerve involving loss of retinal ganglion cells in a characteristic pattern of optic neuropathy. Although intraocular pressure has a significant risk factor for developing glaucoma, there is no set threshold for intraocular pressure that causes glaucoma.
11504	Glioblastoma is a variety of central nervous system tumors, caused by glial cells. The brain is the most commonly affected area; however, the tumor can also occur in any other part of the central nervous system.
11505	Glioblastoma multiforme is the highest grade brain tumor, and is also the most aggressive and most common type. It is also the most malignant form of gliomas characterized by star-shaped cells, called astrocystoma tumors.
11506	Glioma is a classification of primary central nervous system tumors, caused by glial cells. Gliomas most commonly occur in the brain but can also occur in any other part of the central nervous system. Gliomas can also be classified as the following: oligodendroglioma, ependymoma, astrocystoma, and mixed gliomas.
11507	Gliomatosis cerebri is a rare type of brain cancer. It is different from most brain cancers because the cancer causes a tumor, or a lump of the cancer cells. In gliomatosis cerebri, the cancer does not form a mass but forms threads of cancer cells that scatter around the brain.
11508	Gliosarcoma is a malignant cancer and a glioblastoma consisting of gliomatous and sarcomatous components. Most gliomas do not show metastases outside the cerebrum however gliosarcoma being a rare type of glioma, have propensity to do so and are most commonly spreading through the blood to the lungs and liver including the lymph nodes (Beumont et. al. (2007). "Gliosarcoma with multiple extracranial metastases: case report and review of the literature". J. Neurooncology 83: 39-46).
11509	Glomerular refers to the tiny units in the kidney in which the blood is cleansed. Damages that affect these units are called glomerular diseases. Glomerular diseases fall into two categories: glomerulonephritis, in which the membrane suffers from inflammation, and glomerulosclerosis, where the blood vessels in the kidney start to harden.
11510	Glomerulonephritis is a kidney disease wherein the glomeruli, or internal kidney structures, become inflamed. Also known as glomerular nephritis, the disease is a result of a problem within the body's immune system.
11511	Glomerulosclerosis is a condition wherein the kidney's glomerulus hardens. It is a general condition that branches out to either focal segmental glomerulosclerosis, and nodular glomerulosclerosis, for diabetics. Both diseases are characterized by a scarring in the glomeruli.
11512	Glossits is an inflammation of the tongue. It makes the tongue swell and change in color. The disease responds well to treatment, however it can cause severe discomfort when left untreated.
11513	Glossodynia, also known as burning mouth syndrome, is a condition wherein burning sensations affect the tongue, lips, or entire mouth.
11514	Glossophobia, also known as speech anxiety, is a condition wherein a person has a fear of public speaking. It may also be a form of stage fright.
11515	Glucagonoma is a tumor affecting the pancreas' alpha cells, causing extreme surplus production of the hormones insulin and glucagons. The malignant and fast-spreading nature of the disease affects these alpha cells, causing the overproduction of hormones.
11516	Glucocerebrosidase deficiency (also known as Gaucher's disease) is the most common of the lysosomal storage diseases. It is caused by a deficiency of the enzyme glucocerebrosidase, resulting to an accumulation of its substrate, the fatty substance glucocerebroside (also known as glucosylceramide).
11517	Glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase deficiency is a hereditary recessive x-linked enzyme defect. The disease is presented by abnormally low levels of the enzyme glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase. The enzyme is metabolic and is particularly significant to red blood cell metabolism. It is also associated to favism, a disease resulting in a hemolytic reaction due to the ingestion of fava beans.
11518	Glucose-galactose malabsorption is a rare disease affecting the intestine lining, preventing it from absorbing galactose and glucose, which are simple sugars or monosaccharide. This in turn disturbs the digestive processes of those monosaccharides.
11519	Glue ear is a medical condition where the middle ear is filled up with glue-like fluid rather than air. Because of this blockage hearing difficulties are experienced.
11520	Glutaryl-Coa dehydrogenase deficiency, also known as Glutaric aciduria type 1 or Glutaric aciduria, is a hereditary disease characterized by the body's disability to completely metabolize lysine, tryptophan, and hydroxysiline, which are amino acids. This results in byproducts of the breakdown, including glutaryl-CoA, glutaric acid, 3-hydroxyglutaric acid, and glutaconic acid, and the accumulation of these can harm the brain.
11521	Gluten-sensitive enteropathy (also known as Coeliac disease), is an autoimmune disorder of the small intestine that occurs in genetically predisposed people of all ages from middle infancy.
11522	Glycogen storage disease (GSD) refers to a group of conditions caused by enzyme defects affecting glycogen synthesis and resulting in inborn errors of metabolism. It is also known by the names dextrinosis and glycogenosis. Nine diseases make up the classification of glycogen storage disease.
11523	Glycogen storage disease type 1B, also known as von Gierke's disease, is the most common form among the glycogen storage diseases. An enzyme glucose-6-phosphate deficiency is the cause of this, affecting the liver's ability in producing free glucose from gluconeogenesis and glycogen. This in turn, may result in hypoglycemia.
11524	Glycogen storage disease type 7, also called Phosphorofructokinase deficiency or Tarui's disease, is a metabolic disease characterized by a deficiency in the phosphorofructokinase enzyme. This in turn disturbs the function of the cells, including rhabdomyocytes and erythrocytes, to utilize carbohydrates for energy. The disease is autosomal recessive in nature, and may affect mammals apart from humans.
11525	Glycogen storage disease type II, also known as acid maltase deficiency or Pompe disease, is characterized by an enzyme acid maltase deficiency. The body uses the enzyme acid maltase to metabolize glycogen for energy. Among all the glycogen storage diseases, this is the only one with a lysosomal metabolism deficiency.
11526	Glycogen storage disease type V is a glycogen storage disease characterized by a myophosphorylase deficiency. It is also known by the names muscle phosphorylase deficiency or McArdle's disease.
11527	Glycogen storage disease type VI, also known as Hers disease, is a glycogen storage disease (GSD) characterized by a liver glycogen phosphorylase deficiency. It is also one of the less severe forms of all GSDs.
11528	Glycogen storage disease type VII, also known as Tauri disease, affects only the muscle tissue. This is similar to GSD type V.
11529	Glycosuria otherwise known as glucosuria is an osmotic diuresis due to excretion of too much glucose by the kidneys.
11530	Goitre, sometimes spelled as goiter and also known as a bronchocele, is a condition characterized by a large thyroid gland, resulting in a swelling of the neck area. The swelling usually occurs right below the Adam's apple. The condition is more common among older adults and in women.
11531	Goldenhar syndrome, also known as Oculo-Ariculo-Vertebral syndrome, is a congenital disorder wherein the ear, lip, nose, mandible and soft palate are incompletely developed. The condition usually affects just one side of the face.
11532	Golfer's elbow is pain and inflammation on the inner side of the elbow, where the tendons of the forearm muscles attach to the bony bump on the inside of the elbow. The pain may spread into the forearm and wrist.
11533	Gonadal dysgenesis is a general term used to refer to conditions characterized by abnormal gonadal development. Most of these cases show "streak gonads" only. Gonadal dysgenesis causes infertility and inhibits normal sexual development.
11534	Mixed gonadal dysgenesis is a condition of unusual and asymmetrical gonadal development leasing to an unassigned sex differentiation. Considering that the gonads in this medical condition may not be symmetrical, the development of the Mullerian and Wolffian duct may asymmetrical too (Donahoe PK, Crawford JD, Hendren WH Mixed gonadal dysgenesis, pathogenesis, and management. Pediatr Surg. 1979 Jun;14(3):287-300).
11535	Turner type Gonodal Dysgenesis, otherwise known as Turner Syndrome or Ullrich syndrome, is a condition wherein the monosomy of X chromosome is the most ommon, making the female sexual characteristics though present are generally underdeveloped. It is said to occur in about one out of every 2500 female birth (National Institutes of Health (2004). Clinical Features of Turner syndrome).
11536	XX Gonadal Dysgenesis is a type of female hypogonadism wherein no functional ovaries are present to induce puberty unlike those of normal girls whose karyotype is bound to be 46,XX.
11537	XY Female type Gonodal Dysgenesis otherwise known as the Swyer Syndrom is a type of female hypogonadism wherein there is no functional gonads present in the person to induce puberty unlike those of common normal girl.
11538	Gonococcal conjunctivitis is a sexually-transmitted ocular disease. It is a very rare eye infection in adults and is most commonly seen in infants by mothers who are suffering gonorrhea.
11539	Gonorrhea most common sexually transmitted diseases in the world, caused by Neisseria gonorrhoeae. Non-genital sites that thrives are in the rectum, the throat (oropharynx), and the eyes (conjunctivae). The vulva and vagina in women are often spared because they are lined by stratified epithelial cells in women the cervix is the usual first site of infection.
11540	Goodpasture pneumorenal syndrome, otherwise known as Goodpasture's disease and anti -glomerular basement membrane disease is a condition wherein there is rapid destruction of the kidneys and hemorrhaging of the lungs.
11541	Goodpasture's syndrome is a rare disease wherein there is hemorrhaging in the lungs and rapid destruction of kidneys. Many other conditions may have similar symptoms, however Goodpasture's syndrome is characterized by autoimmunity due to the immune system attacking cells with the Goodpasture antigen found in the lungs and kidneys.
11542	Gorham's disease, also known as Massive Osteolysis, is a rare congenital bone disorder characterized by the spread of vascular channels that are destructive to the bone matrix. Osteolysis, or vanishing of the bones, occurs as well as angiomatosis.
11543	Gorlin syndrome is a disease affecting the connective tissues. It is also referred to as nevoid basal cell carcinoma.
11544	Gout is a complex disorder that can affect anyone. Men are most likely to get gout than women are, but women become increasingly susceptible to gout after menopause.
11545	Graft versus host disease (GVHD) is a commonly occurring side effect of allogeneic bone transplant or cord blood transplant wherein functional immune cells located in the transplanted marrow identify its recipient as a foreign body and attack. The disease can occur anywhere in the body but usually affected are the eyes, skin, stomach, and intestines.
11546	A grand mal seizure (also called tonic-clonic seizure) features a loss of consciousness and violent muscle contractions. This is the type of seizure most people picture when they think about seizures in general.
11547	Granulocytopenia is a condition wherein the body has a decreased amount of granulocytes. Granulocytes are a type of white blood cells containing microscopic granules which are actually small sacs that contain enzymes to digest microorganisms. It is also known by the names Granulopenia and neutropenia.
11548	Granuloma annulare is a chronic skin condition consisting of raised, reddish or skin-colored bumps (lesions) that form ring patterns, typically on the hands and feet.
11549	Granuloma inguinale, also known as donovanosis, a bacterial illness characterized by genital ulcers that can be mistaken for syphilis. They can grow to endemic proportions and eat up genital tissues causing blood and mucus leakage.
11550	A condition which is characterized as a common, benign growth that often appears as a rapidly growing, bleeding bump on the skin or inside the mouth, composing of blood vessels and may occur at the site of minor injury is called pyogenic granuloma. It is sometimes called a ?pregnancy tumor? (granuloma gravidarum) when it occurs in a pregnant woman. They develop in up to 5% of pregnant women.
11551	Granulomatous amebic encephalitis is a disease that affects the central nervous system. It is brought about by a certain specie of amoeba called Balamuthia mandrillaris.
11552	Graves' disease, the most common type of hyperthyroidism, is a condition wherein the immune system attacks the thyroid gland, causing it to overproduce thyroxine.
11553	Gray platelet syndrome, also known as Alpha Granule Deficiency, is a rare congenital disorder characterized by large and gray platelets on light microscopy. The gray color is caused by an absence of alpha-granules in blood platelets.
11554	Great vessels transposition is a general term referring to a group of congenital heart defects wherein the arrangement of any primary blood vessels are abnormal. The primary blood vessels affected could be any of the following: aorta, pulmonary veins, inferior or superior vena cava.
11555	Greenberg dysplasia, also known as hydrops-ectopic calcification-moth-eaten skeletal dysplasia is a rare lethal skeletal dysplasia.
11556	Grippe is another name for the contagious infection called influenza. Influenza is a common medical condition in which patients suffer from colds, fever and chills. Complications may arise from influenza and can be a cause of death among children and adults.
11557	Griscelli Disease, GS for brevity is an autosomal recessive disorder that results in the pigmentary dilution of the skin and the hair, the accumulation of the melanosome in melanocytes. It involves impairment of the lymphocyte function and the inability to produce normal levels of immunoglobulins (Griscelli C, Prunieras M. Pigment dilution and immunodeficiency: a new syndrome. Int J Dermatol. Dec 1978;17(10):788-91).
11558	Gronblad-Strandberg syndrome, also known as Pseudoxanthoma elasticum, is a genetic disorder that affects certain connective tissues in the body. In this condition, calcium as well as other minerals are deposited in the connective tissues causing abnormalities in the eyes, skin, gastrointestinal system and cardiovascular system.
11559	Gross hematuria is in contrast to microhematuria in which the blood is visible only under a microscope: there is so little blood that it is difficult to be seen without magnification.
11560	Group B Streptococcus (GBS) infection is common disease among pregnant women that can be passed on to their newborn babies. It is caused by the Gram-positive bacteria named Steptoccocus agalacticae. The bacteria is usually characterized by the prevalence of Group B Lancefield antigen, thus the name Group B Streptoccocus.
11561	Grover's disease is a common skin disorder that is presented by itchy red spots on the trunk. It usually occurs in men over the age of forty.
11562	Growing pains are the "pains" children complain of during their growth spurt years.
11563	Constitutional growth delay is a condition wherein skeletal growth is delayed. It is the most common origin of pubertal delay and short stature. The condition affects children and teens, although they have no other physical abnormality except short stature. It occurs in both girls and boys although more frequently in boys.
11564	Growth hormone deficiency is a disorder affecting the pituitary gland which is responsible for producing the growth hormone, among other hormones. The pituitary gland does not produce enough growth hormones, resulting in slower growth than normal. Both children and adults are affected by the condition.
11565	Growth problems, or the failure to thrive, are disorders some infants suffer from. These conditions must be given constant care and attention since they may lead to more severe conditions that may affect the infant's overall development.
11566	Guanidinoacetate methyltransferase deficiency, otherwise known as GAMT Deficiency, is an autosomal recessive metabolic disorder. It is said to affect the nervous system and the muscles. Affected children lose previously acquired skills like head control and ability to sit unsupported if affected with the GAMT deficiency.
11567	Guerin-stern syndrome is another name for intrauterine hypokinesia. It is a congenital condition wherein several joints are deformed, such as those in the wrist. This results to the dislocation of the carpal joints. Other deformities caused by this condition include clubfoot, hip dislocation, vertical talus and delayed maturation.
11568	Guillan-Barre syndrome (GBS) is a disorder affecting the body's immune system, causing it to attack part of the peripheral nervous system. GBS is autoimmune and acute in nature. GBS has many forms, although its most common form is acute inflammatory demyelinating polyneuropathy (AIDP).
11569	Commonly known as Dracunculiasis this is an infection caused by the parasite Dracunculus medinensis. The parasite is alternately known as "Guinea worm".
11570	Also called as Gulf War Illness this is an illness reported by combat veterans of the 1991 Persian Gulf War typified by symptoms including immune system disorders and birth defects. It has not always been clear whether these symptoms were related to Gulf War service of the occurrence if illness in Gulf War veterans in higher than comparable populations.
11571	Gum cancer is any abnormal growth that develops in the gum tissues. It is also called gingival cancer.
11572	Gingivitis ("inflammation of the gums") (gingiva) around the teeth is a general term for gingival diseases affecting the gingiva (gums). As usually used, the term gingivitis refers to gingival inflammation induced by bacterial biofilms (also called plaque) adherent to tooth surfaces.
11573	Gustatory sweating refers to the extreme sweating on the forehead, scalp, face and neck that occurs after ingesting food. It is usually normal to sweat after eating spicy food; however, gustatory sweating is caused by a damaged nerve. It can be a symptom of Frey's syndrome or diabetes mellitus. This condition is difficult to treat, as special procedures involving oxybutynin chloride, and clonidine are used to lessen the effects brought about by the damaged nerve.
11574	Gymnophobia is an abnormal, unfounded and persistent fear of nudity (Corsini, R., 2002, The Dictionary of Psychology, p. 722)`
11575	Gynecomastia, or gynaecomastia, is the development of abnormally large mammary glands in males resulting in breast enlargement, which can sometimes cause secretion of milk.
11576	H. pylori infection occurs when a bacterium called Helicobacter pylori (H. pylori) thrives in the stomach or the first part of the small intestine.
11577	Hib is an bacterium which is said to be responsible for some three million severe illnesses and an estimated 386,000 mortalities per year mainly through pneumonia and meningitis. Affected children range from five years old and below. In developing countries where a large majority of Hib deaths occur, pneumonia is accounted for bigger number of mortalities than meningitis.
11577	Hib is an bacterium which is said to be responsible for some three million severe illnesses and an estimated 386,000 mortalities per year mainly through pneumonia and meningitis. Affected children range from five years old and below. In developing countries where a large majority of Hib deaths occur, pneumonia is accounted for bigger number of mortalities than meningitis.
11578	Hageman factor deficiency is an uncommon hereditary disorder which is characterized by the low plasma protein known as factor XII.
11579	Hailey-hailey disease is a skin anomaly in which clusters of small vesicles that cause ruptures in the skin. These lesions cause pigmentation once they dry up and get eroded. They usually develop in the neck, groin and genital areas and spread towards the different skin-covered areas. It is an autosomal dominant disorder.
11580	Trichotillomania (or hair-pulling disorder) is a type of mental illness in which people have an irresistible urge to pull out their hair, whether it's from their scalp, their eyebrows or other areas of their body. Hair pulling from the scalp often leaves them with patchy bald spots on their head, which they may go to great lengths to disguise or cover.
11581	Hairy cell leukemia is a slow-growing cancer characterized by overproduction of B cells in the bone marrow. These B cells, called lymphocytes, are a kind of white blood cell needed to fight infection. The bone marrow is unable to produce other types of normal cells as well, including platelets that heal bleeding, and red blood cells that carry oxygen. Hairy cell leukemia is a rare disease, constituting only 2% of all leukemia cases.
11582	Hairy leukoplakia is a distinct white, irregular-shaped plaque found on the side of the tongue. This lesion is common among patients with HIV. The lesions usually contain fungi, bacteria or viruses, but are not considered contagious. Hairy leukoplakia can be treated by controlling the spread of HIV.
11583	Hairy tongue is a condition that affects both humans and animals, characterized by a darkening of the tongue, sometimes hair growth. A fungus causes the dark appearance on the tongue, although it is a harmless condition. Most common affected are the elderly, tobacco smokers, and users of antibiotics.
11584	Hajdu-Cheney syndrome is a genetic disorder of the connective tissue which causes severe and excessive bone resorption leading to osteoporosis.
11585	Halitosis, oral malodor (scientific term), breath odor, foul breath, fetor oris, fetor ex ore, or most commonly bad breath are terms used to describe noticeably unpleasant odors exhaled in breathing - whether the smell is from an oral source or not.
11586	Hallerman-Streiff syndrome is a genetic defect characterized by malformations in the craniofacial area, ocular abnormalities, dental deformities, skin atrophy and short stature.
11587	Hallervorden-Spatz disease (HSD) is a degenerative disease affecting the brain. The condition can lead to parkinsonism. Cases may be familial or occur sporadically. Neurodegeneration and excess iron in the brain also occur.
11588	Hallucination is the term used to describe false perceptions towards one's senses; a person who hallucinates behaves in response to the things he sees and/or hears despite the fact that the things he perceives are not actually there.
11589	Hallux valgus, also known as bunions, is a condition characterized by a structural deformity in the bone as well as the joint between the big toe and foot. This is a typically painful condition. The big toe may turn facing the second toe, a condition called displacement. The tissue around the joint area is tender and swollen.
11590	Hamburger disease is another name for E. coli disease. It is an illness caused by consumption of contaminated and raw food. It is present among meat products such as hamburger patties.
11591	A hammertoe is a toe that's curled because of a bend in the middle joint of a toe.
11592	Hand-foot-mouth disease is a common disease characterized by mouth sores, fever, and rashes. Enteroviruses from the family Picornaviridae causes the disease. It is common in infants and children, and is moderately contagious. Contact with feces or mucus of an infected person can trigger contagion.
11593	Hand writing Rett syndrome, or more commonly known as Rett syndrome, is a childhood neurodevelopmental disorder.
11594	Hand-Schuller-Christian disease is a condition which lipids accumulate in the body and manifest as histiocytic granuloma in bones, particularly in the skull, the skin and viscera and which is often accompanied by hepatosplenomegaly and lymphadenopathy.
11595	Hanhart syndrome otherwise known as the Richner Syndrome, is an autosomal recessive disorder caused by deficiency in enzyme tyrosine amono transferase (E. Hanhart: â–„ber die Kombination von Peromelia mit Mikrognathia, ein neues Syndrom beim Menschen, entsprechend der Akroteriasis congenita von Wriedt und Mohr beim Rinde. Archiv der Julius Klaus-Stiftung fâ¿r Vererbungsforschung, Sozialanthropologie und Rassenhygiene, Zâ¿rich, 1950, 25: 531-544).
11596	Hansen's disease, more commonly known as leprosy, is a chronic contagious disease that causes severe disfigurement on the skin, face, hand and feet. It was once a dreaded epidemic.
11597	Hantavirosis is a term that describes an infection from the Bunyaviridae virus family which is transmitted from rodents. The condition occurs in China, Russia, Korean Peninsula, northern and western Europe, Brazil, Chile, United States, Panama, Canada, and Patagonian Argentina.
11598	Hantavirus pulmonary syndrome or HPS for brevity, is a deadly medical condition where the disease is transmitted by infected rodents through urine, droppings, or saliva.
11599	HARD syndrome, also known as Walker-Warburg syndrome, is a congenital muscular dystrophy related to eye and brain abnormalities. Around 30 different muscular disorders are classified under the HARD syndrome.
11600	Harlequin type ichtyhysosis is a hereditary congenital skin disorder characterized by thick and cracking skin that splits apart due to thickening of the keratin layer. The skin contains reddish, diamond-shaped scales. It is the most severe form of congenital ichthyosis. Individuals with the condition are known as harlequins, harlequin babes, or harlequin fetuses.
11601	Harpaxophobia is the morbid fear of being robbed (Corsini, R., 1999. The Dictionary of Pschology, p.435).
11602	Hartnup disease, also known as monkey disease or Hartnup's disorder, is an autosomal recessive disorder wherein the transport of neutral amino acids to the kidneys and small intestines is defective. Sufferers have a niacin deficiency as well as an inborn error of amino acid metabolism.
11603	Hashimoto's thyroiditis is an autoimmune disease wherein the body's antibodies attack the thyroid cells. It is also known by the name chronic lymphocytic thyroiditis. It is also the most common form of hyperthyroidism in the United States.
11604	Hay fever, also known as allergic rhinitis, causes cold-like symptoms such as a runny nose, congestion, sneezing and sinus pressure. But unlike a cold, hay fever isn't caused by a virus, but by an allergic response to indoor or outdoor airborne allergens, such as pollen, dust mites or pet dander.
11605	Hay-Wells syndrome otherwise known as ankyloblepharon-ectodermal dysplacia clefting syndrome is one of the type of ectodermal dysplasia (Index of Rare Diseases. National Organization for Rare Disorders. 20 Mar 2008). It thus affect tissues that arise from ectoderm especially that of the skin, hair and nails.
11606	Head and neck cancer is a collective term used to describe cancers that form in the aerodigestive area, in organs such as the mouth, nasal cavity, paranasal sinuses, larynx, pharynx and lip. These cancers can affect the lymph nodes when not treated early.
11607	Head cancer is a group of cancers that occur on the head up to the organs found in the neck. Included in this group are facial cancers, oral cancers, nasopharynx and laryngeal cancers.
11608	Lice are tiny, wingless, parasitic insects that feed on the blood. Lice are easily spread - particularly by schoolchildren - through close personal contact and by sharing belongings. Head lice are those that develop on the scalp. They're easiest to see at the nape of the neck and over the ears.
11609	Headache-free migraine is a condition where a patient experiences the pains of migraine attacks but with no headaches. Among the symptoms include blurry vision, nausea, constipation, loss of balance and vomiting. Headache-free migraine also occurs with fever, muscle weakness and body pain.
11610	Cluster headache is a neurological disease characterized by extreme pain. The cyclical pattern of the pain, occurring in periods with spontaneous remissions, gives the disease its name. The "clusters" of frequent attacks can last anywhere from a few weeks to months. During remission periods, the headaches completely stop, although patterns differ from person to person. Remission periods can occur from months to a year. The condition can afflict anyone although it is more common in men and adults aged 20-40 years old. Attacks are classified into episodic or chronic. Episodic attacks are characterized by a higher frequency with longer remissions. Chronic attacks are characterized by frequent headaches that can last up to years.
11611	Cluster headache is a neurological disease characterized by extreme pain. The cyclical pattern of the pain, occurring in periods with spontaneous remissions, gives the disease its name. The "clusters" of frequent attacks can last anywhere from a few weeks to months. During remission periods, the headaches completely stop, although patterns differ from person to person. Remission periods can occur from months to a year. The condition can afflict anyone although it is more common in men and adults aged 20-40 years old. Attacks are classified into episodic or chronic. Episodic attacks are characterized by a higher frequency with longer remissions. Chronic attacks are characterized by frequent headaches that can last up to years.
11612	Ice cream headache is a form of brief, intense cranial pain or headache commonly associated with consumption (particularly quick consumption) of cold beverages or foods such as ice cream, slurpees, or margaritas.
11613	Cough headaches are an unusual type of headache caused by coughing and other types of straining - such as sneezing, blowing the nose, laughing, crying, singing or bending over, and straining when having a bowel movement.
11614	Rebound headaches, also known as medication overuse headaches, occur when pain medications (analgesics) are taken too often to relieve headache.
11615	Sex headache is a rare type of severe headache that occurs at the base of the skull before orgasm during sexual activity, including masturbation.
11616	A sinus headache is a headache that hapens when the sinuses become congested. During a cold or allergy attack, the openings can become congested by excess mucus and may become infected.
11617	During a spinal tap, a sample of cerebrospinal fluid is withdrawn from the spinal canal. During spinal anesthesia, medication is injected into the spinal canal to numb the nerves in the lower half of the body. If spinal fluid leaks through the tiny puncture site, a spinal headache may develop.
11618	Tension headaches are the most common type of primary headaches. The pain can radiate from the neck, back, eyes, or the other muscle groups in the body. Tension-type headaches account for almost 90% of all headaches.
11619	A thunderclap headache is a severe headache that occurs suddenly. Since it is sometimes a sign of a medical emergency, one should seek immediate medical attention for any headache that occurs suddenly and severely.
11620	Headaches in children are a common problem among children. But chronic headaches among children may be a sign of other underlying illness so this condition must be given immediate attention.
11621	Hearing disorders, also known as hearing loss or hearing impairments, are conditions wherein there is full or partial decrease in hearing quality. Environmental and biological factors can bring about various types of hearing disorders. Hearing disorders are classified into sensorineural, conductive, and mixed hearing loss.
11622	Hearing impairment refers to reduction in sensitivity to sounds, which may be accompanied by some loss in the ability to correctly interpret auditory stimuli even when amplified (Stolov, W., Clowers, M. 2000. Handbook of Sever Disability,p. 395)
11623	Hearing loss is a the decrease, whether full or partial, of the ability to detect or understand sounds (Speech and Language Terms and Abbreviations. Retrieved on 2006-12-02).
11624	Heart rhythm problems (or arrhythmias) occur when the electrical impulses in the heart that coordinate the heartbeats don't function properly, causing the heart to beat too fast, too slow or irregularly.
11625	A heart attack usually happens when a blood clot blocks the flow of blood through a coronary artery - a blood vessel that feeds blood to a part of the heart muscle. Interrupted blood flow to the heart can destroy a part of the heart muscle.
11626	Heart babies are infants born with congenital heart problems.
11627	Heart block is a disease that affects the heart's electrical system. Signal from the upper to the lower chambers of the heart do not transmit. There are 3 degrees of heart block: first degree, second degree, and third, which is complete heart block.
11628	Heart failure, also known as congestive heart failure (CHF), means the heart can't pump enough blood to meet the body's needs. Over time, conditions such as coronary artery disease or high blood pressure gradually leave the heart too weak or stiff to fill and pump efficiently.
11629	Murmurs are abnormal heart sounds that may cause as a result of turbulent blood flow, which is sufficient to produce audible noise. This usual results from narrowing or leaking of valves or the presence of abnormal passages through which blood flows in or near the heart. Murmurs are not common part of the normal cardiac physiology and thus warrant further investigations.
11630	Heart situs anomaly otherwise known as Dextrocardia, is a condition where in the heart is located in the right side of the thorax whereby the apex is pointing to the right. It is characterized by the reversal of the normal position of the heart.
11631	Heartburn is a painful or burning sensation in the esophagus, just below the breastbone caused by regurgitation of gastric acid.The pain often rises in the chest and may radiate to the neck, throat, or angle of the jaw. Heartburn is also known as one of the causes of chronic cough, and may even mimic asthma. Not considering its name, heartburn actually has nothing to do with the heart. It is because of a burning sensation of the breastbone where the heart is located although some heart problems do have a similar sensation to heartburn.
11632	Heat cramps is the condition where muscles experience numbness and immobility as well as a stinging sensation that lasts for a short period of time.
11633	Heat exhaustion is one of the heat-related syndromes, which vary in severity from mild heat cramps to heat exhaustion to potentially life-threatening heatstroke.
11634	Heat rash also called prickly heat or miliaria is a common condition in which areas of the skin itch intensely and often feel prickly or sting due to overheating. Heat rash is like tiny bumps surrounded by a zone of red skin.
11635	Heat stroke is also called as Hyperthermia it is an acute condition which occurs when the body produces or absorbs more heat that it can dissipate.
11636	Heavy metal poisoning is poisoning through ingestion of heavy metals such as common transition metal such as copper, lead and zinc. These metals are a cause of environmental pollution (A Dictionary of Chemistry. Oxford University Press, 2000. Oxford Reference Online.Oxford University Press).
11637	A heel spur is a thin calcifications within the plantar fascia that is attached to the calceneus, or heel bone. Heel spurs are commonly found in patients with plantar fasciitis.
11638	Helicobacter pylori is a gram-negative, microaerophilic bacterium that infects various areas of the stomach and duodenum.
11639	Heliophobia is the unfounded and irrational fear and avoidance of sunlight (Milbry, 1911. A Pocket Medical Dictionary).
11640	Heller's syndrome or (childhood disintegrative disorder) is a condition in which young children develop normally until age 3 or 4, but then demonstrate a severe loss of social, communication and other skills.
11641	HELLP syndrome is a fatal condition that occurs during later stages of pregnancy, and sometimes after labor. The abbreviation stands for Hemolytic anemia, Elevated Liver enzymes and Low Platelet count.
11642	Helminthiasis is a medical condition wherein a part of the body is infested with worms such as the pinworm, roundworm or tapeworm. Said parasites resides and stay in the gastrointestinal tracts, the liver and other organs
11643	Hemachromatosis is a metabolic disease that can cause cirrhosis. It is due to an abnormal increase of iron levels, which can greatly impair the liver.
11644	Hemangioblastoma is a disease of the central nervous system characterized by benign brain tumors, usually occurring in the cerebellum. The tumors represent cysts, and contain small solid nodules inside. The small nodules contain abnormal blood vessels in a tangle. Hemangioblastomas are most commonly occurring in those ranging from 35 to 45 years old.
11645	Hemangioendothelioma refers to a group of vascular neoplasms that may be either benign or malignant. Around 10% of cases are associated with other syndromes including lymphedema, early onset varicose veins, Mafucci's syndrome, and Klippel-Trenauay-Weber syndrome. There are 3 types of hemangioendotheliomas: retiform, epitheloid, and kaposiform.
11646	Hemangioma is a commonly occurring type of vascular anomaly, or a birthmark. They appear as abnormal lumps composed of blood vessels. The condition is a benign tumor that may either appear at birth or present itself later on in life and may be located anywhere in the body. In some cases, they occur internally.
11647	Hemangio thrombocytopenia syndrome or HTS is a rare disease affecting infants characterized by a vascular tumor which causes low platelet count as well as bleeding problems. The condition is also known as Kasabach-Merritt Syndrome.
11648	Hematuria (blood in urine) is a condition characterized by the presence of blood in urine. It comes in two forms; gross hematuria (blood is visible to the naked eye) and microscopic hematuria (in which blood can only be detected in the laboratory).
11649	Hemianopia, or hemianopsia, refers to a partial vision loss in the eyes. It has three types: binasal, bitemporal, and homonymous hemianopia.
11650	Hemifacial microsomia is a congenital disease wherein the lower half of the face is undeveloped. The parts most commonly affected are the mandible, ears, and mouth, and can affect either one side of the face or both. Hemifacial microsomia may lead to complications in breathing, as it may obstruct the trachea.
11651	Hemifacial spasm (HFS) is a neurological abnormality wherein the blood vessels cause pressure to the cranial nerve due to frequent constrictions. This results to degrees of facial spasming, particularly around the eye.
11652	Hemihypertrophy, properly referred to as hemihyperplasia, is the enlargement of one side of the body.
11653	Hemimegalencephaly otherwise known as unilateral megancephaly is a medical condition that is characterized by the enlargement or abnormal growth of one-half of the brain.
11654	Hemiplegia is a medical condition where there is paralysis of the other half of the patient's body. This is in contrast to hemiparesis where the other half of the body is just merely weakened but not paralyzed.
11655	Hemiplegia alterans, or aleternating hemiplegia, is a rare disorder that affects the neurological system. It develops during the child's first four years of age, and characterized by recurring episodes of temporary paralysis in one side of the body.
11656	Hemmorhagic fever belongs to a group of viral hemmorhagic fevers (VHFs), which are human and animal diseases caused by any four RNA families: Filoviridae, Arenaviridae, Flaviviridae, and Bunyaviridae.
11657	Hemochromatosis is a hereditary disease characterized by excessive absorption of dietary iron resulting in a pathologic increase on total body iron stores. Human, like virtually all animals, have no means to excrete excess iron. Excess iron accumulates in tissues and organs disrupting their normal function.
11658	Hemoglobinopathy is a type of genetic defect that results from abnormal and not well defined structure of the globin chains of the hemoglobin molecule in the body. It usually includes sickle Disease and Thalassemia.
11659	Hemoglobinuria is a disease characterized by the presence of abnormally high hemoglobin concentrations in the urine. The free hemoglobins in the urine is caused by filtration from the kidney, causing urine to be reddish in color.
11660	Hemolytic anemia is a medical condition where insufficient red blood cell count results due to antibody attacks against the RBC. It is an autoimmune disorder that usually affects a fetus while inside the mother's womb.
11661	Hemolytic disease of the newborn, or erythroblastosis fetalis, is an alloimmune state wherein the IgG antibodies produced by a pregnant mother attack the red blood cells that circulate in the fetus. This condition causes reticulocytosis and anemia. This can be a dreaded disease and can lead to heart failure.
11662	Hemolytic-uremic syndrome (HUS), is an illness characterized by acute renal failure, low platelet count, and microangiopathic hemolytic anemia.
11663	Hemolytic-uremic syndrome (HUS) is a condition affecting infants and children, characterized by low platelet count (thrombocytopenia), acute renal failure, and microangiopathic hemolytic anemia.
11664	Hemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis (HLH) is a rare disease affecting infants and young childen, but in some cases adolescents. It is characterized by the pathological findings of hemophagocytosis, jaundice, fever, and splenomegaly. HLH is usually associated with Epstein-Barr virus, genetic, malignant, autoimmune diseases, as well as other viruses or fungal infections.
11665	Hemophilia is a hereditary blood disease main characterized by the inability of the blood to clot. This disorder may lead to excessive bleeding even when caused by minor injuries. Hemophilia has two types: the most common Hemophilia A, which is found in almost 80 percent of the patients, and Hemophilia B, also known as Christmas disease.
11666	Hemophilia A, the most common type of hemophilia, is a blood clotting disease. A mutation of the Factor VIII gene causes the condition and is a largely inherited disorder.
11667	Hemophobia is the fear of blood, which is extreme and irrational.
11668	Hemorrhage is the medical term used to describe excessive bleeding due to rupture of the blood vessels. It is a complication of other diseases. Hemorrhage can be external or internal.
11669	Hemorrhagiparous thrombocytic dystrophy is commonly called Bernard-Soulier syndrome named after Dr. Jean Bernard and Jean Pierre Soulier. It is a severe bleeding disorder caused by a deficiency of glycoprotein Ib (GpIb), which is important in clot formation.
11670	Hemorrhoids are varicosities or swelling and inflammation of veins in the rectum and anus. Hemorrhoids are actually the anatomical term for "'Cushions of tissue filled with blood vessels at the part of the rectum and the anus." However, the term has come into usual usage to indicate the condition described herein.q
11671	Hemothorax is a disease wherein blood accumulates in the chest. It is a relatively common condition, usually occurring from traumatic force in the thorax which causes the serous membrane of the thorax surrounding the lungs to rupture.
11672	Hendra virus is a strain of virus under the Paramyxoviridae family. It was first described in 1994 during an outbreak of neurological and respiratory disease in humans and horses in the Hendra suburb of Brisbane, Australia.
11673	Henoch-Schonlein purpura (HSP or anaphylactoid purpura) is a kind of blood vessel inflammation or vasculitis.
11674	Heparin-induced thrombocytopenia (HIT) is a condition wherein doses of heparin causes low platelet count (thrombocytopenia). The condition is a thrombotic disorder where there are high concentrations of thrombosis in the arteries. HIT usually occurs 4-14 days after the heparin administration. Heparin is administered during cardiovascular surgery.
11675	Hepatic encephlopathy is a neuropsychological disorder causing chronic or acute liver failure. The liver failure results in an accumulation of toxic substances in the blood and would affect the brain cells, which healthy livers normally remove. Impairment of mental functioning is the main characteristic of hepatic encephalopathy.
11676	Hepatic hemangiomas are benign tumors that develop in the liver. They are not cancerous.
11677	Hepatic veno-occlusive disease is a condition in which some of the veins in the liver are blocked. It is sometimes due to a complication of high-dose chemotherapy undergone by a patient prior to a bone marrow transplant.
11678	Hepatitis implies injury to liver marked by presence of inflammatory cells in the liver tissue. The condition can be self limiting, healing on its own, or can progress to scarring of the liver tissue. Hepatitis is acute when it lasts not more than 6 months and chronic when it persists longer. A group of viruses known as the hepatitis viruses cause the most cases of liver damage worldwide.
11679	Hepatitis (plural hepatitides) implies injury to liver marked by presence of inflammatory cells in the liver tissue.
11680	Hepatitis (plural hepatitides) implies injury to liver marked by presence of inflammatory cells in the liver tissue.
11681	Hepatitis (plural hepatitides) implies injury to liver marked by presence of inflammatory cells in the liver tissue.
11682	Hepatitis (plural hepatitides) implies injury to liver marked by presence of inflammatory cells in the liver tissue.
11683	Hepatitis E is a kind of hepatitis in which the virus thrives in contaminated refuse and water. It exhibits almost the same conditions of other kinds of hepatitis.
11684	Hepatitis (plural hepatitides) implies injury to liver marked by presence of inflammatory cells in the liver tissue.
11685	Hepatitis (plural hepatitides) implies injury to liver marked by presence of inflammatory cells in the liver tissue. Another potential viral cause of hepatitis has been identified, known as hepatitis G, and is probably spread by blood and sexual contact. However, there is doubt about whether it causes hepatitis, or is just associated with hepatitis, as it does not appear to replicate primarily in the liver.
11686	Hepatitis (plural hepatitides) implies injury to liver marked by presence of inflammatory cells in the liver tissue. Drug-induced hepatitis (also called toxic hepatitis) appears in eight in every 10,000 people because the liver reacts abnormally during drug exposure, leading to liver damage. This pathology results to the the liver not being able to function properly and the symptoms can begin to be seen.
11687	Hepatitis X or "Lost Hepatitis", is an infectious liver disease usually transmitted via the fecal-oral route. It can be contracted from contaminated food and water.
11688	Hepatitis (plural hepatitides) implies injury to liver marked by presence of inflammatory cells in the liver tissue. Autoimmune hepatitis is a rarely known cause of chronic hepatitis. Chronic means that the inflammation is long-term or persistent. The chronic inflammation slowly damages the liver cells which results in serious problems.
11689	Toxic hepatitis is liver inflammation that occurs when the liver is damaged by toxic chemicals, drugs or certain poisonous mushrooms.
11690	Hepatoblastoma is a rare malignant liver neoplasm arising in infants and children and composed of tissue resembling fetal or mature liver cells or bile ducts. They are generally present with an abdominal mass. Alpha-fetoprotein (AFP) commonly is heightened but when AFP is not elevated at diagnosis the prognosis is poor.
11691	Hepatocellular carcinoma is a primary malignancy of the liver. Most cases of HCC are secondary to either a viral hepatitide infection or cirrhosis. In countries where hepatitis is not endemic, most of the malignant cancers in the liver are not primary HCC but metastasis of cancer from elsewhere in the body, like the colon. Treatment options of HCC and prognosis depend on many factors but especially on tumor size and staging.
11692	Hepatocerebral degeneration is an acquired brain defect due to liver damage. When not treated, the disorder can bring about irreversible damages to the whole nervous system.
11693	Hepatolenticular degeneration is an autosomal recessive disease that usually features the presence of copper deposits in organs such as the brain, cornea and liver. It is a result of genetic mutations at the ATP7B gene that encodes copper transporting ATPase 2. The disease can cause neurological problems that can lead to liver cirrhosis, ataxia and intellectual degeneration.
11694	Hepatoma is a cancer that affects the liver. It is the most common kind of liver cancer.
11695	Hepatomegaly is the condition of having an abnormally enlarged liver.
11696	Hepatorenal syndrome (HRS) refers to acute renal failure that arises in the setting of cirrhosis or fulminant liver failure associated with portal hypertension, generally in the absence of other disease of the kidney.
11697	In medicine, amyloidosis refers to a group of conditions in which amyloid proteins are abnormally deposited in organs and/or tissues, causing disease. A protein is amyloid if, because of an alteration in its secondary structure, it takes on a particular insoluble form, called the beta-pleated sheet.
11698	Angioedema, also known as Quincke's edema, is the rapid swelling (or edema) of the skin, mucosa and submucosal tissues. Aside from the common form, mediated by allergy, it has been reported as a side effect of some medications, specifically ACE inhibitors.
11699	The hereditary ataxias are a group of genetic disorders marked by slowly progressive incoordination of gait and often associated with poor coordination of hands, speech, and eye movements. Frequently, atrophy of the cerebellum arises. The hereditary ataxias are grouped by mode of inheritance and causative gene or chromosomal locus.
11700	Hereditary ceroid lipofuscinosis (also known as Batten Disease or NCL) is a fatal, inherited disorder of the nervous system that starts in childhood. In some cases, the early signs are subtle, taking the form of personality and behavior changes, clumsiness, slow learning, or stumbling.
11701	Hereditary coproporphyria (HCP) is a form of hepatic porphyria linked with a deficiency of the enzyme coproporphyrinogen III oxidase.
11702	Hereditary deafness is hearing loss that is passed down from parents to their children. This type of hearing loss may be inherited from one or both parents who may or may not possess a loss of hearing themselves.
11703	Hereditary deafness-retinitis pigmentosa, also known as Usher syndrome, is a rare genetic disorder that features deafness and progressive loss of vision. This condition is due to the impairment of the auditory nerves to send sensory input to the brain. Hereditary deafness-retinitis pigmentosa has three types, and is categorized as an autosomal recessive disorder.
11704	Hereditary elliptocytosis is a blood disorder in which a large proportion of the sufferer's erythrocytes (i.e. red blood cells) are elliptical instead of being biconcave disc-shaped. The disorder comes before haemolytic anaemia.
11705	Hereditary fructose intolerance (HFI) or fructose poisoning is a hereditary condition that results from a deficiency of liver enzymes that metabolise fructose. This is also known as hereditary fructosemia, or fructose in the blood.
11706	Hereditary hemochromatosis is a genetic disease that results to the body absorbing and storing too much iron. The condition gets its name from "hemo" for blood and "chroma" for color, alluding to the characteristic bronze skin tone that iron overload can cause. Someone with hereditary hemochromatosis who has never taken an iron supplement could find out in later years that iron overload is leading to serious health problems.
11707	Hereditary hemorrhagic telangiectasia (HHT) is a disorder that leads to the development of multiple abnormalities in the blood vessels.
11708	Hereditary nonspherocytic hemolytic anemia is a term used to describe a group of rare, genetically transmitted blood disorders marked by the premature destruction of red blood cells (erythrocytes or RBCs). If the red blood cells cannot be replaced faster than they destroy themselves, anemia results.
11709	Hereditary pancreatitis is a genetic disease affecting the production of enzymes in the pancreas. In the pancreas, a genetic mutation causes the enzyme cationin trypsinogen to be made in a way which leaves it resistant to inactivation through autolysis. Normally this autolysis mechanism prevents trypsinogen from being activated inside the pancreas. However, when the abnormal trypsinogen is activated, it results to a chain reaction where all the trypsinogen in the pancreas is activated, effectively digesting the pancreas from the inside.
11710	Hereditary sensory motor neuropathy is a genetic disorder that leads to nerve damage. Also known as Charcot-Marie Tooth disease, it usually triggers the legs, hands, arms and feet. It also causes reduced sensation, but it is not life-threatening.
11711	Hereditary spastic paraplegia (HSP), also known as familial spastic paraparesis (FSP), refers to a group of inherited disorders that are marked by progressive weakness and stiffness of the legs
11712	Hereditary spherocytosis is a genetically-transmitted form of spherocytosis, an auto-hemolytic anemia marked by the production of red blood cells that are sphere-shaped rather than donut-shaped, and therefore more prone to hemolysis.
11713	Heritable disorders of connective tissue are muscular diseases that cause the connective tissues to degenerate. Connective tissues such as collagen and elastin are important as they link the different organs together, and deterioration of these tissues can lead to muscular problems, weakness and paralysis. Among the kinds of hereditary connective tissue disorders are the Marfan syndrome, Ehlers-Danlos syndrome, and osteogenesis imperfecta, or the brittle bone disease.
11714	Hermansky-Pudlak Syndrome (HPS) is an inherited disease which leads to oculocutaneous albinism (decreased pigmentation), bleeding problems due to a platelet abnormality (platelet storage pool defect), and storage of an abnormal fat-protein compound (lysosomal accumulation of ceroid lipofuscin).
11715	Hermaphroditism (or Intersex) is a group of conditions where there is a discrepancy between the external genitals and the internal genitals (the testes and ovaries).
11716	A hernia is a protrusion of a tissue, structure, or portion of an organ through the muscular tissue or the membrane by which it is normally contained. The hernia had three parts: the orifice through which it herniates, the hernia sac, and its contents.
11717	Hernia refers to the protrusion of a part of the intestines. This usually caused by an obstruction of the muscles in the abdominal area. In children, hernias occur due to an improper closure of the umbilical cord after birth.
11718	Inguinal hernias are protrusions of abdominal cavity contents through the inguinal canal.
11719	Umbilical hernia is a congenital malformation, particularly common in infants of African descent, and more frequent in boys.
11720	The bones (vertebrae) that form the spine in your back are cushioned by small, spongy discs. These discs are healthy, they act as shock absorbers for the spine and maintain the spine flexible.
11721	Herpangina is the name of a painful mouth infection, typically with a fever. Even though the name sounds like herpes, almost all of the many viruses that cause it are coxsackieviruses or other enteroviruses and not herpesvirus.
11722	Infection of the genitals is commonly known as herpes and predominantly occurs following sexual transmission of the type 2 strain of the virus (HSV-2). Oral herpes, colloquially called cold sores, is commonly caused by the type 1 strain of herpes simplex virus (HSV-1).
11723	Herpes gestationis is a medical condition used to describe polymorphic vesicobullous eruption during pregnancy.
11724	Herpes of the eye, or dendritic keratitis, is an eye infection caused by the herpes zoster virus.
11725	Herpes simplex is commonly known as as cold sores. It is a viral infection of the skin that arises once or return again and again. This is because when the virus is cleared from the skin by the immune system it hides in the nerves and is never wholly removed from the body. Herpes infections are very prevalent. Unfortunately those who carry the herpes virus can spread the disease without even knowing it.
11726	Herpes simplex encephalitis (HSE) is a very serious disorder and one of the most severe viral infections affecting the human central nervous system.
11727	Commonly affecting both men and women, genital herpes is a highly contagious sexually transmitted disease which include itching, pain and sores in your genital area.
11728	Leading to the development of small and usually painful blisters on the skin of the mouth, lips, gums or lip area, herpes labialis is an infection caused by the herpes simples. The blisters are commonly called fever blisters or cold sores.
11729	Sacral herpes simplex virus or also called genital herpes is an infection of the lower back and buttocks and is a common recurrent skin condition associated with infection of the herpes simplex virus (HSV). HSV infection usually appears as small sores or blisters around the nose, mouth, buttocks, lower back and the genitals, though infections can develop almost anywhere on the skin where these tender sores may come back periodically in the same sites.
11730	This is an infection by a member of the Herpesviridae family, a family of enveloped, linear, double-stranded DNA viruses; occurs in a wide variety of animals.
11731	Herpes zoster (or zoster), commonly known as shingles, is a viral disease marked by a painful skin rash with blisters in a limited area on one side of the body.
11732	Herpes zoster oticus (HZ oticus) is a viral infection affecting the inner, middle, and external ear. HZ oticus manifests as severe otalgia and associated cutaneous vesicular eruption, typically of the external canal and pinna. When linked with facial paralysis, the infection is called Ramsay Hunt syndrome.
11733	Herpes simplex virus (HSV) keratitis includes a wide variety of disease processes that HSV can cause in the human cornea. A variety of clinical manifestations of infectious and immunologic etiologies, such as neurotrophic keratopathy, infectious epithelial keratitis, necrotizing stromal keratitis, immune stromal keratitis (ISK), and endotheliitis, can affect all levels of the cornea. Although more common as a manifestation of recurrent HSV infection, HSV keratitis may also be detected during a primary infection.
11734	Herpetic whitlow is a painful viral infection occurring on the fingers or around the fingernails which is cause by infection with the herpes simplex virus (HSV). It is also called digital herpes simplex, hand herpes or finger herpes. These infections are very contagious and are easily spread by direct contact with skin lesions and usually appears as sores or small blisters around the nose, mouth, buttocks, and genitals, though the infections can develop almost anywhere on the skin.
11735	Heterophobia is a term used to describe bias or discrimination against heterosexuals, particularly among homosexual or bisexual people; although, depending on one's views, it is also possible for a heterosexual to be heterophobic.
11736	Hyperornithinemia-hyperammonemia-homocitrullinemia (HHH) syndrome is a very rare inborn error of metabolism; the age at presentation and long-term prognosis vary widely among affected individuals. Growth and developmental delays, periodic confusion and ataxia, and learning disabilities (especially speech delay), are typical presenting symptoms. In this syndrome, a defect in the transport of ornithine into the mitochondrial matrix significantly hinders the urea cycle, thereby impeding nitrogen disposal.
11737	A hiatus hernia or hiatal hernia is the protrusion (or herniation) of the upper part of the stomach into the thorax through a tear or weakness in the diaphragm.
11738	A hiccup (hiccough) is a spasmodic contraction of the diaphragm that typically repeats several times per minute. In medicine, it is referred to as synchronous diaphramatic flutter (SDF).
11739	Hidradenitis suppurativa is a chronic skin inflammation characterized by the presence of blackheads and one or more red, tender bumps (lesions). The lesions usually enlarge, break open and drain pus. Scarring may occur after several occurrences.
11740	High altitude cerebral edema, also known as "altitude sickness of mountaineers", is a medical condition experienced when traveling to high altitudes. Because of the lack of oxygen in high elevations, some people experience hypoxia, extreme headache and weakness.
11741	High altitude pulmonary edema is another form of altitude sickness this time affecting the lungs. Unlike high altitude cerebral edema, pulmonary edema refers to hypoxia itself, as oxygen can no longer be processed by the lungs.
11742	High Cholesterol is the presence of high levels of cholesterol in the blood. It is not a disease but a metabolic derangement that can be secondary to many diseases and can contribute many forms of disease, most notably cardiovascular disease. It is nearly related to the terms "hyperlipidemia" (elevated levels of lipids) and "hyperlipoproteinemia" (elevated levels of lipoproteins).
11743	Hip dysplasia is a hereditary disease that, in its more severe form, can eventually lead to crippling lameness and painful arthritis of the joints.
11744	The socket of the human hip joint known as acetabulum is naturally lined by some cartilage called labrum, which provides proper stability as well as cushioning for the hip joint. In the case of thehip labral tear, known as a hip labral tear or otherwise known as the acetabular labral tear can often arise from injury or because if some repetitive movements that cause the wear-and-tear on the hip joint, such as osteoarthritis.
11745	Hirschsprung's disease is a condition that affects the large intestine (colon or large bowel) and leads to problems with passing stool. It's present when a baby is born (congenital) and arises from missing nerve cells in the muscles of a portion of the baby's colon.
11746	Hirsutism is described as excessive and increased hair growth in women in locations where the occurrence of terminal hair normally is minimal or absent.
11747	Histidinemia, also known as histidinuria, is a rare autosomal recessive metabolic disorder caused by a deficiency of the enzyme histidase.
11748	Eosinophilic granuloma, also known as pulmonary histiocytosis X (PHX) or pulmonary Langerhans cell histiocytosis X (PLCH), is a rare interstitial lung disease that is epidemiologically related to tobacco smoking. It predominantly affects young adults, primarily occurring in the third or fourth decades of life.
11749	Histoplasmosis, also called Darling's disease, is a disease caused by the fungus Histoplasma capsulatum. Its symptoms vary greatly, but the disease mostly affects the lungs.
11750	Histrionic personality disorder (HPD) is a personality disorder marked by a pattern of excessive emotionality and attention-seeking, including an excessive need for approval and inappropriate seductiveness, usually beginning in early adulthood.
11751	Hives are also medically known as urticaria. It is characterized by batches of raised, reddish or whitish itchy welts that form in various sizes. Normally, the hives go away for a few weeks or even less but have the tendency to recur frequently. In most cases of chronic hives, a cause is never clearly identified. In some cases, the condition may be related to an underlying autoimmune disorder - when your body becomes allergic to itself. Chronic hives can also be linked to other health problems such as thyroid disease or lupus. While the underlying cause of chronic hives is usually not identified, treatment can help with symptoms. For many people, a combination of antihistamine medications provides the best relief.
11752	Hoarding is the exaggerated collection of items that seem to have limited or no value, such as newspapers or trash, along with the inability to discard them. Hoarding creates such cramped living conditions that whole rooms may be filled to capacity, and homes may be left with only narrow pathways winding through stacks of clutter.
11753	Laryngitis (hoarse voice) is an inflammation of the voice box (larynx) due to overuse, irritation or infection. Inside the larynx are the vocal cords - two folds of mucous membrane covering muscle and cartilage.
11754	In Hodgkin's disease, cells in the lymphatic system develop abnormally and may spread beyond the lymphatic system. As Hodgkin's disease progresses, it compromises the body's ability to fight different infections.
11755	Holocarboxylase synthetase deficiency is an inherited disorder in which the body is unable to utilize the vitamin biotin effectively. This disorder is classified as a multiple carboxylase deficiency, a group of disorders marked by impaired activity of certain enzymes that depend on biotin.
11756	Holoprosencephaly is a disorder caused by the failure of the prosencephalon (the embryonic forebrain) to adequately divide into the double lobes of the cerebral hemispheres. This results in a single-lobed brain structure and severe skull and facial defects. In majority of cases of holoprosencephaly, the malformations are so severe that babies die before birth. In less severe cases, babies are born with normal or near-normal brain development and facial deformities that may affect the noce, eyes, and upper lip.
11757	Holt-Oram syndrome is a disorder that affects bones in the arms and hands and may also cause heart problems in patients.
11758	Homocystinuria is an inherited disorder in which the body cannot process certain building blocks of proteins (amino acids) properly.
11759	The hookworm is a parasitic nematode worm that lives in the small intestine of its host, which may be a mammal such as a dog, cat, or human. There are two species of hookworms commonly infect humans, Ancylostoma duodenale and Necator americanus.
11760	A sty (hordeolum) is a red, painful lump on the edge or inside of the eyelid that may look like a boil or a pimple. Often a sty is filled with pus. As it swells in size, the sty may make it difficult for the person to see clearly because he can't fully open his eye.
11761	Horn Kolb syndrome, also known as acheiropodia, is an autosomal recessive disease that results in hemimelia, a lack of formation of the distal extremities. This is a congenital defect which is made up of bilateral amputations of the distal upper and lower extremities, as well as aplasia of the hands and feet. It is almost endemic to Brazil.
11762	Horner's syndrome is a clinical syndrome resulting from damage to the sympathetic nervous system. It is also known as Bernard-Horner syndrome or oculosympathetic palsy.
11763	Horseshoe kidney (also called renal fusion) is a congenital disorder, affecting about 1 in 400 people, in which a person's two kidneys fuse together to form a horseshoe-shape during development in the womb.
11764	Hot flashes, or hot flushes, are the sudden passing of warm feelings from the face going down to the other parts of the body, including the hands and feet. This is commonly experience by women undergoing menstruation, pre-natal situations and menopause.
11765	Hot tub rash, with other common names like barber's itch, folliculitis, or hot tub folliculitis may sound more like a bad joke than a skin disorder, but an infection of the hair follicles is not a laughing matter. Scarring and permanent hair loss might be the result in severe cases and even mild folliculitis can be embarrassing and uncomfortable.
11766	Howel-Evans syndrome is a very rare condition in which the skin of the palms of the hands, and soles of the feet, are affected (hyperkeratosis). The effects on the palms and soles is called tylosis, and in Howel-Evans syndrome, there is a high risk for oesophageal cancer, particularly squamous cell carcinoma.
11767	HPV infection is a condition contracted from one of a group of more than 100 related human papillomaviruses (or HPVs).
11768	HSV1 (HHV1) and HSV2 (HHV2) are neurotrophic alpha-herpesviruses that occur naturally only in humans.
11769	Hughes syndrome is the former name of antiphospholipid syndrome. It is a kind of coagulation disorder in which the blood clots both in the arteries and veins. This disorder can led to pregnancy-related problems such as preterm deliver, miscarriage and severe preeclampsia.
11770	Human adjuvant disease is a connective-tissue disease that may develop after a person undergoes cosmetic surgery. Mammary augmentation procedures may lead to systemic lupus erythematosus and chylous effusion disorders especially when one is inserted with silicone gel implants.
11771	Human Granulocytic Ehrlichiosis (HGE) is a rare infectious disease that is part of a group of diseases known as the Human Ehrlichioses. The Ehrlichioses are infectious diseases caused by bacteria in the "Ehrlichia" group. Several forms of Human Ehrlichial infection have been described including Human Granulocytic Ehrlichiosis (HGE), Sennetsu Fever, and Human Monocytic Ehrlichiosis (HME). Though caused by different strains of Ehrlichia bacteria, the disorders are all marked by similar symptoms.
11772	These are parasitic insects that are tiny and wingless that resides and feed on blood from the scalp. Head lice are a very common problem that affects children and can be a major nuisance in the household.
11773	Human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) is a retrovirus that can result to acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS), a condition in humans in which the immune system begins to fail, leading to life-threatening opportunistic infections.
11774	HPV infection is a condition contracted from one of a group of more than 100 related human papillomaviruses (or HPVs).
11775	Human Parvovirus B19, a species of parvovirus that infects humans, is linked with the development of several different autoimmune diseases including dematomyositis, mixed connective tissue diseases, a lupus-like illness, a serologically negative (negative RA factor test) form of arthritis, granuloma annulare, autoimmune thyroid disease, autoimmune schizophrenia, and various forms of vasculitis, including Henoch Schonlein purpura, Kawasaki disease, Wegener's granulomatosis, and polyarteritis nodosa. The development of autoimmune conditions following Human Parvovirus B19 arises in people of all ages and occurs more frequently in females. Autoimmune disease development is also known to appear in adults exposed to children with fifth disease
11776	HTLV causes T-cell leukaemia and T-cell lymphoma in adults and may also be engaged in certain demyelinating diseases that includes tropical spastic paraparesis. HTLV is described as a human, single-stranded RNA retrovirus.
11777	Kyphosis (or hunchback) is a forward rounding of the upper back. Some rounding is normal, but the term "kyphosis" typically refers to an exaggerated rounding, more than 40 to 45 degrees.
11778	Hunt's syndrome is a rare form of progressive cerebellar dyssynergia mainly marked by intention tremor and often associated with convulsions and myoclonic epileptic jerks.
11779	Hunter syndrome is an inherited metabolic disorder that arises when an enzyme the body needs to break down molecules called glycosaminoglycans, or mucopolysaccharides, is either missing or malfunctioning.
11780	Huntington's chorea is a disease causing certain of the brain's nerve cells to waste away. It is also called huntington's disease.
11781	Huntington's disease (HD), known as Huntington's chorea and chorea maior, is a rare genetic neurological disorder inherited by an estimated one person per 10,000 people of Western European descent, varying geographically, down to one per 1,000,000 of Asian and African descent.
11782	Hurler syndrome, also called mucopolysaccharidosis type I (MPS I), Hurler's disease and gargoylism, is a genetic disorder that results in the deficiency of alpha-L iduronidase, which is an enzyme that breaks down mucopolysaccharides in the lysosomes. In the absence of this enzyme, a buildup of heparan sulfate and dermatan sulfate occurs in the body. Symptoms appear during childhood and early death can take place due to organ damage.
11783	Hurthle cell cancer (or HCC) is a relatively rare and extremely aggressive type of cancer that occurs in the thyroid gland, the gland responsible for secreting hormones that are essential in regulating the metabolism.
11784	Hutchinson's teeth (also called Hutchinson's incisor, Hutchinson's sign or Hutchinson-Boeck teeth) are a sign of congenital syphilis. Babies with this have teeth that are smaller and more widely spaced than the usual and which have notches on their biting surfaces.
11785	Hutchingson-Gilford syndrome (also known as progeria) is a very rare disease of premature aging in young children, marked mainly by a birdlike, "wizened old man" facial appearance, premature bodily ageing (progeria) and dwarfism. The children have bird-like features, large skull, atrophy of muscles and skin, loss of subcutaneous fat, high serum lipid levels and early atherosclerotic changes in the vessels.
11786	Medically known as Echinococcosis and other terms are hydatid cyst, unilocular hydatid disease or cystic echinococcosis which is a potentially deadly parasitic disease that can affect numerous animals.
11787	A hydatidiform mole (or hydatid mole, mola hytadidosa) is an anomalous growth containing a nonviable embryo which implants and proliferates within the uterus.
11788	Echinococcosis, also called hydatid disease, hydatid cyst, unilocular hydatid disease or cystic echinococcosis, is a potentially fatal parasitic disease that can affect many animals, including wildlife, commercial livestock and humans.
11789	Hydranencephaly is a rare condition in which the brain's cerebral hemispheres are missing and replaced by sacs filled with cerebrospinal fluid.
11790	A hydrocele is a fluid-filled sac surrounding a testicle that leads to swelling of the scrotum, the loose bag of skin underneath the penis.
11791	Hydrocephalus is a term derived from the Greek words "hydro" meaning water, and "cephalus" meaning head, and this condition is sometimes known as "water in the brain". People with this condition have abnormal collection of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) in the ventricles, or cavities, of the brain.
11792	Hydrocephalus is a serious increase of cerebrospinal fluid inside the ventricles of the brain. This is a common dreaded disease among infants that can lead to brain damage.
11793	Hydronephrosis is swelling (dilation) of the urine-collecting structures of one or both kidneys because of the obstruction of urine flow from the kidney. This can hinder kidney function. Hydronephrosis is not a specific disease, but a sign of an underlying problem.
11794	Hydrophobia, also known as aquaphobia, is an abnormal and persistent fear of water. Aquaphobia is a specific phobia that concerns a level of fear that is beyond the patient's control or that may interfere with daily life. People may suffer from aquaphobia in a lot of ways and may experience it even though they realize the water in an ocean, a river, or even a bathtub poses no imminent threat. They may avoid such activities as swimming and boating, or they may avoid swimming in the deep ocean despite having mastered basic swimming skills. This anxiety commonly extends to getting wet or splashed with water when it is least expected or being pushed or thrown into a body of water.
11795	Hydrops fetalis is a condition in the fetus marked by an accumulation of fluid, or edema, in at least two fetal compartments, including the subcutaneous tissue, pleura, pericardium, or in the abdomen, which is also known as ascites. The edema is typically seen in the fetal subcutaneous tissue, sometimes leading to spontaneous abortion. It is a prenatal form of heart failure, in which the heart has failed to satisfy the insatiable demand for an unusually high amount of blood flow.
11796	Hydrosyringomyelia refers to a group of conditions a person experiences when the spinal cord is damaged by an abnormal formation of fluid-filled cavities within the cord.
11797	Hydroxyapatite crystal disease is an inflammation of the joints due to the crystallization of the hydroxyapatite mineral in the bones.
11798	Hymenolepiasis is infestation by one of two species of tapeworm: Hymenolepis nana and Hymenolepis diminuta.
11799	Hyper IgE syndrome (HIES) is a heterogeneous kind of disorders presented by recurring staphylococcal infections, eczema-like rashes, lung infections and high levels of the IgE antibody in the blood serum. It is sometimes known as Job-Buckley syndrome.
11800	Hyper-IgD syndrome is an uncommon inherited disorder wherein an individual has high immunoglobulin D that causes recurring attacks of fever and chills that onsets during the first year of life. The attacks typically last four to six days, which may be accompanied by other symptoms like abdominal pain, skin rash, and joint pain. The frequency and severity of the attacks vary significantly from one case to another. These episodes can be triggered through physiologic stress, for instance minor trauma or vaccination.
11801	Hypersexuality is the desire to engage in human sexual behavior at a level high enough to be considered clinically significant. Hypersexuality is marked by a debilitating need for frequent genital stimulation which, once achieved, may fail to result in the expected long-term sexual-or emotional-satisfaction. This dissatisfaction is what is believed to encourage the increased frequency of sexual stimulation, as well as additional physiological and neurological symptoms.
11802	Hyperadrenalism, more commonly known as Cushing's Syndrome, is an endocrine abnormality marked by the presence of high cortisol levels in the blood. Hyperadrenalism is also often called hypercortisolism or hyperadrenocorticism. Its more familiar moniker, "Cushing's Syndrome", is attributed to Harvey Cushing, an American physician who is credited for its discovery and consequent study. According to the results of Cushing's studies, the disease is characterized by abnormal fat deposition. It also occurs commonly in dogs and domestic horses. In particular, Cushing's syndrome occurs when the adrenal cortex is invaded with a tumor and particularly deficient ACTH levels.
11803	Hyperaldosteronism, also commonly known as aldosteronism, is a disorder in which the adrenal glands produce abnormally high levels of aldosterone, which can lead to decreased levels of potassium in the blood.
11804	Hyperammonemia, also known as hyperammonaemia, is a type of metabolic defect marked by high levels of ammonia in the blood. Hyperammonemia can be a fatal condition which can easily lead to encephalopathy and eventual death.
11805	Hyperandrogenism is an endocrine disorder that occurs in women, affecting roughly 10% of the female population. Occurring among all races and nationalities, this hormonal defect is known as the leading cause of infertility worldwide. The more popular form of this hormonal disorder is Hyperandrogenic Chronic Anovulation, more commonly known as Polycystic Ovary Syndrome (PCOS).
11806	Hyperbilirubinemia is characterized by an excess of bilirubin in the blood. Bilirubin is a substance that forms when red blood cells break down. In infants, the bilirubin can accumulate in the blood and surrounding tissues, filling the baby's body with fluids. The result is a condition called hyperbilirubinemia. The excess bilirubin causes pigmentation or yellowing of the infant's skin and tissues, a condition known as jaundice.
11807	Hypercalcaemia (sometimes spelled Hypercalcemia) is a disorder characterized by elevated levels of calcium in the blood. Hypercalcaemia may be asymptomatic. It can, however, indicate the presence of other diseases; therefore, a diagnosis is needed if it persists.
11808	Literally, Hypercholesterolemia means "high blood cholesterol". Characterized by elevated levels of cholesterol in the blood, Hypercholesterolemia is not a disease per se, but a metabolic dysfunction which may be indicative of other diseases as well as contribute to several other forms of disease. Hypercholesterolemia is strongly correlated with "hyperlipidemia", marked by high lipid levels, and "hyperlipoproteinemia", marked by high lipoprotein levels. A rare genetic form of this disorder is known as familial hypercholesterolemia, a condition occurring in families where members cannot properly metabolize cholesterol.
11809	Hyperchylomicronemia, also known as hyperlipidemia or hyperlipoproteinemia, is characterized by elevated levels of lipids and/or lipoproteins in the blood. This lipid/lipoprotein abnormality, which is common in the general population, poses a high risk of developing into a cardiovascular disease because of the presence of high levels of cholesterol. Some forms of Hyperchylomicronemia may also lead to acute pancreatitis.
11810	Hypercortisolism is a condition that arises from an excess of cortisol, a hormone produced by the adrenal glands. Sometimes called hypercortisolism, Cushing's syndrome can occur when the adrenal glands, located above the kidneys, make too much cortisol. It may also develop if the person is taking high doses of cortisol-like medications (corticosteroids) for a prolonged period.
11811	Hyperemesis gravidarum is a process of involuntary vomiting during pregnancy. This condition usually leads to ketosis and dehydration. The disorder can also contribute to other major complications such as centrilobular necrosis, Wernicke's encephalopathy, widespread fat degeneration and esophageal rupture.
11812	Hypereosinophilic syndrome is an uncommon blood disease process wherein the bone marrow generates steadily elevated 'eosinophil' count over a prolonged period of time causing damage to the tissue or organ. The syndrome may affect any part of one's body, but mostly affects the heart, nervous system, and the skin.
11813	Hyperexplexia is an uncommon inherited disorder in which infants show a heightened startle reflex or reaction. The onset of the disease is soon after birth, and is characterized by rigidity or stiffness and supposition of flexed fetal placement. This startle reflex is sometimes joined by 'acute generalized hypertonia' that causes an individual to suddenly fall like a stiff log onto the ground. Other names for this disease include 'startle disease', Kok disease, and stiff baby syndrome.
11814	Hyperglycemia is a condition wherein there's an excessive quantity of glucose circulating in one's blood plasma. It's a grave health dilemma for people with diabetes. Diabetic people having hyperglycemia over a long period of time can cause damage to blood vessels, nerves, and other organs of the body.
11815	Hyperglycemic hyperosmolar nonketotic syndrome or HHNS is a condition where the blood sugar is released through frequent urination. Too much urination leads to dehydration, if one does not drink sufficient fluids. Dehydration may lead to seizures and eventually, death.
11816	Hyperglycinemia (nonketotic) is an innate metabolism error that's distinguished by the build up of huge quantities of amino acid glycine in urine, blood, and especially in the CSF or cerebrospinal fluid. This metabolic block happens in the transformation of glycine into tinier molecules. The disorder comes in several forms: classic form, infantile form, mild-episodic form, late-onset form, and atypical form.
11817	Hyperhidrosis is a common condition in which there is an abnormally excessive and unpredictable sweating. People with this condition can sweat even when temperatures are cool or when they're resting. The sweating may occur in one's hands, armpits, or feet.
11818	Hyperhomocysteinemia is a condition wherein there's an excessive level of homocysteine in the blood. It's often linked with cobalamin or folate deficiency, and genetic defects. Homocysteine is a molecule in the body that's naturally occurring, and is needed in many reactions that happen within body cells. These reactions result to methionine and cysteine formation; if passageways to methionine and cysteine are blocked, then the levels of homocysteine rise.
11819	Hyperinsulinemia is a medical condition in which excess amounts of circulating insulin are found in the blood. This is common among people with diabetes mellitus type 2. It is often linked with metabolic syndrome. The condition is caused by insulin resistance as well as pancreatic cancer. Because of high levels of insulin concentrated in the blood, other organs suffer from inadequate insulin levels resulting to hypoglycemia.
11820	Hyperkalemia is a condition in which there is an excessive level of electrolyte potassium in the blood. Severely high levels of potassium in blood may lead to 'cardiac arrest' and even death. Although mild hyperkalemia may have limited effect on one's heart, moderate condition may produce changes in EKG, and severe cases may cause the suppression of the heart's electrical activity that may cause one's heart to stop beating.
11821	Also known as Impressive Syndrome, Hyperkalemic Periodic Paralysis (HYPP) is a genetic disorder inherited via autosomal dominancy. In HYPP patients, sodium channels in muscle cells as well as the ability to regulate potassium levels in the blood are affected. While closely associated with horses, this disease also affects humans. In human patients, HYPP is often referred to as Gamstorp episodic adynamy.
11822	Hyperkalemic renal tubular acidosis (HRTA) is a class of defects wherein hydrogen ion excretion is impaired, causing a chronic metabolic acidosis. Hyperchloremia is often present in this condition, and other electrolytes such as Ca and K are frequently deranged.
11823	Hyperlexia is a child spontaneously and precociously masters single-word reading. It can be viewed as a super ability, that is, word recognition ability far above expected levels. The most common definition also includes difficulties with comprehension of printed material beyond or even at the single-word level. Several hyperlexics also have trouble understanding speech. Probably all children with hyperlexia also lie on the autism spectrum.
11824	Hyperlipidemia is a condition in which abnormal levels of lipids are found in the blood. Lipids, or fatty molecules, take part in the body's metabolism process and abnormalities may affect different body functions. High levels of lipids may induce organ problems such as cardiovascular diseases, atherosclerosis and acute pancreatitis. Proper diet and statin therapies are performed to control the production of lipids in the blood.
11825	Hypermagnesemia is a kind of electrolyte condition in which there is a disturbing high level of magnesium found in the blood. This a rare condition since one of the kidney's main function is to excrete excess amounts of magnesium in the body.
11826	Hypermenorrhea (also know as menorrhagia) is when menstruation is excessively long-lasting or heavy.
11827	Hypermobility syndrome is a condition in which a person with doubled joints also experiences athraigia and myalgia, as skin hyperextensibility and varicose veins.
11828	Hypernatremia is a common electrolyte disturbance characterized by the increased blood sodium levels. It is a result of a deficit of free water in the body. Hypernatremia is a form of dehydration.
11829	Farsightedness (also known as hyperopia) is a common vision condition in which one can see objects in the distance clearly, but objects nearby may be blurry.
11830	Hyperoxaluria is a condition in which there is emission of excessive quantity of 'oxalate' in one's urine. Oxalate is basically organic salt that forms soluble salt when combined with potassium and sodium, but when joint with calcium, it generates insoluble product that's found in kidney stones. Mild types of the condition are comparatively common, and may cause the formation of kidney stones. Bigger quantities of the oxalate in urine may be due to intestinal diseases that cause over-absorption of the oxalate.
11831	Hyperparathyroidism is a condition characterized by an over activity of the parathyroid glands, often caused by an overproduction of the parathyroid hormone (PTH). PTH regulates and helps maintain the levels of calcium and phosphate in the body. When one or more of the parathyroid glands becomes over-active, calcium levels are elevated while phosphate levels drop.
11832	The darkening of the skin in an area of prior injury or skin disorder from increased pigment (melanin) left from the healing process is called post-inflammatory hyperpigmentation. When old red blood cells die, the darkening may sometimes be also due to an iron pigment left behind.
11833	Hyperpituitarism is an end result of large secretions of adenohypopheseal trophic hormones due to pituitary adenoma. The condition is manifested in diseases such as radiographic abnormalies of the sella turcica, disruption of the diaphragm, increased intracranial pressure and bitemporal hemianopia.
11834	Hyperprolactinemia (AmE), also known as Hyperprolactinaemia (BrE), is characterized by increased levels of proclatin in the blood. Normal proclatin levels in women are less than 580 mIU/L, whereas 450 mIU/L is normal for men.
11835	Hyperprolinemia is a disorder resulting from excessive protein-building block (known as proline) in the patient's blood. This inherited condition has two types, namely Type I and Type II.
11836	Hyperreflexia is a medical condition characterized by overresponsive or overactive reflexes, such as twitching and spastic tendencies. Hyperreflexia, which is more of a symptom than a disease, is usually indicative of a disorder of the upper motor neurons as well as disinhibition or a decrease or loss of control in the higher brain centers.
11837	Hypersexuality is the desire to engage in human sexual behavior at a level high enough to be considered clinically significant. Hypersexuality is marked by a debilitating need for frequent genital stimulation which, once achieved, may fail to result in the expected long-term sexual-or emotional-satisfaction. This dissatisfaction is what is believed to encourage the increased frequency of sexual stimulation, as well as additional physiological and neurological symptoms.
11838	Hypersomnia is a condition characterized by recurring episodes of excessive daytime sleepiness. People in this condition tend to take a nap at random hours during the day.
11839	High blood pressure or more popularly referred to as hypertension means high pressure in the arteries or the vessels that carries blooding from the heart to other parts of the body. The normal blood pressure of a human being is typically below 120/80 and people who reaxch 140/90 are most likely suffering form hypertension.
11840	Pregnancy-related hypertension, or preeclampsia, is a common problem during pregnancy. The condition is defined by high blood pressure and excess protein in the urine after 20 weeks of pregnancy.
11841	Hypertensive heart disease is a complication of arterial hypertension that involves the heart. It is one of the most common causes of fatalities in different societies.
11842	Hypertensive retinopathy is characterized by retinal damage that results from hypetension or high blood pressure.
11843	Hyperthermia is the development of severe health problems due to intense heat or because of extremely hot weather conditions. This is often referred to as the advanced state of sunstroke or heat stroke, which can prove to be fatal and requires immediate medical attention.
11844	Hyperthyroidism is a medical condition that is caused by the ill effects of too much production of thyroid hormone on tissues of the human body. While there are several underlying causes of hyperthyroidism, patients would usually experience the same symptoms.
11845	Hypertrichosis, or werewolf's disease, refers to an abnormally excessive hair growing on the body. This hair tends to cover the face, arms and other parts of the skin.
11846	Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (HCM) is a defect in the muscle of the heart known as myocardium. This disease is characterized by the thickening (or hypertrophy) of the myocardium without any evident cause. HCM is believed to be the leading cause of sudden, unexpected cardiac arrest in any age group.
11847	Hypertropia is characterized by the misalignment of the eyes, in which the visual axis of one eye is higher than the other. It is similar to hypotropia, wherein focus of the eye with the visual axis is lower than the fellow fixating eye.
11848	Hyperventilation is a condition in which the air passageways narrow due to excessive inhalation of oxygen. This commonly occurs during asthma attacks.
11849	Hyper IgM syndrome, or 'Hypogammaglobulinemia with Hyper-IgM', is a type of genetic disease characterized by a distinctly high occurrence of Immunoglobulin M (i.e., IgM) antibodies.
11850	Hyphema is a condition wherein blood is accumulated inside the anterior chamber of the eye.
11851	Hypoadrenalism is a condition whereaby the adrenal glands are underactive, with suppressed ability to produce a range of hormones. The adrenal glands, located above each kidney, are responsible for hormone production. The inactivity of these glands is called hypoadrenalism.
11852	Hypoaldosteronism is a condition characterized by reduced levels of the hormone aldosterone. This condition may lead to a potentially serious disease called hyperkalemia. It can also led to hyponatremia.
11853	Hypocalcemia is a type of electrolyte disturbance characterized by a having low serum calcium levels. The human body regulates only the calcium that are not bound to proteins or ionized. Individuals with abnormally low levels of blood proteins may have plasma calcium that are inaccurate. In cases like this, the ionized calcium level is considered more accurate.
11854	Hypochondria sometimes referred to as health phobia) refers to an excessive preoccupation or worry about having a serious illness. Usually, hypochondria persists even after a physician has evaluated a person and reassured him/her that his/her concerns about symptoms do not have an underlying medical basis or, if there is a medical illness, the concerns are far in excess of what is appropriate for the level of disease
11855	Hypochondriasis is a psychiatric illness in which a person takes on anxiety attacks regarding his present health condition. This condition is traditionally known as hypochondria.
11856	Hypochondrogenesis is a disease characterized by bone growth malformations. Though it is severe, Hypochondrogenesis is considered milder than achondrogenesis type 2 which is another skeletal disorder.
11857	Hypochondroplasia is a developmental disorder characterized by a stature that is short and disproportional and micromelia, the condition wherein the head appears large when compared to the other parts of the body. This condition tends to affect females more than males.
11858	Hypocortisolism, or Addison's disease, is a disorder that results in the body producing insufficient amounts of certain hormones produced by the adrenal glands
11859	Hypogeusia is the reduced ability of the taste buds to differentiate flavors. It is a common side effect of chemotherapy and anti-tumor antibiotics. The complete lack of taste meanwhile is called ageusia.
11860	Hypoglycemia, which literally means "under-sweet blood," is a condition characterized by a lower than normal level of sugar or glucose in the blood. The condition occurs when the blood glucose level fall at a point that is not enough to support bodily functions.
11861	Hypogonadism is a condition characterized by a lack of function of the gonads as a result of a defect of the reproductive system. The gonads produces hormones and also plays a role in producing eggs and sperm. Infertility results from defective sperm and egg development. Hypogonadism is often used to describe a permanent defect of the reproductive system.
11862	Hypohidrosis is subnormal sweating, less sweating than usual. Hidrosis means sweating, so hypohidrosis is literally undersweating.
11863	Hypohidrotic ectodermal dysplasia is a condition characterized by abnormal development of structures such as skin, teeth, hair, nails and sweat glands. It is among the 150 types of ectodermal dysplasia. Hypohidrotic ectodermal dysplasia is the most common form of ectodermal dysplasia in humans. It is estimated to affect at least 1 in 17,000 people worldwide
11864	Hypohydration (or dehydration) is the removal of water from an object. Medically, it is a condition in which the body contains an inadequate volume of water for normal functioning.
11865	Hypokalemia is a condition characterized by low concentration of potassium in the blood. About 95% of the potassium in the human body are found inside cells, the rest are found in the blood. Potassium is a very important mineral. It is responsible for muscle and nerve actions.
11866	Hypokalemic periodic paralysis is a rare disease characterized by very low blood calcium that results in muscle weakness and paralysis.
11867	Hypokalemic sensory overstimulation is a condition characterized by similarities to ion channel disorders such as hypokalemic periodic paralysis. The symptoms of hypokalemic sensory overstimulation and that of sensory integration disorder and attention deficit disorder are quite the same. The relation between the three condition are yet to be established.
11868	Hypolipoproteinemia is a rare but serious condition characterized by a lack of fat in the blood. Fat is absorbed by blood, along with proteins and other chemicals, in the intestine and is transported to the liver for processing.
11869	Hyponatremia is an abnormally low concentration of sodium in the blood.
11870	Hypoparathyroidism is a condition characterized by a decreased function of the parathyroid glands that leads to reduced levels of the parathyroid hormone or PTH. Hypoparathyroidism often leads to a condition known as hypocalcemia which is serious.
11871	Hypophosphatasia is an inherited metabolic condition characterized by decreased tissue nonspecific alkaline phosphatase (TNSALP) and defects in mineralization of the bones. This rare disease comes in five forms: perinatal, infantile, childhood, adult, and odontohypophosphatasia. Perinatal hypophosphatasia is sure to cause death while infantile hypophosphatasia carries a 50% mortality rate. The other forms are usually not deadly.
11871	Hypophosphatasia is a rare inherited metabolic disease of decreased tissue nonspecific alkaline phosphatase (TNSALP) and defective bone mineralization. Both autosomal recessive and autosomal dominant varieties of the disease exist. The disease comes in one to five forms, perinatal, infantile, childhood, adult, and odontohypophosphatasia.
11872	The loss of skin color (pigmentation) after your skin heals from an injury is called post-inflammatory hypopigmentation because pigment-producing cells (melanocytes) are damaged or destroyed in the healing process.
11873	Hypopituitarism is a disorder characterized by a deficiency in one or several hormones of the pituitary gland. Hormones are produced by the hypothalamus to regulate secretions from the pituitary gland. This is why a dysfunction in the hypothalamus often causes disorders in the pituitary gland.
11874	Hypoplastic left heart syndrome, HLHS for short, is a condition characterized by severe malformation and underdevelopment of the left part of the heart. Individuals with HLHS experiences poor blood circulation since the right side of the heart compensates for the inefficiency of the left side. If left untreated, HLHS may lead to dangerously low blood circulation, shock and even death. HLHS is a rare condition that affects only 2 in every 100,000 live births.
11875	Hypoprothrombinaemia is a blood disorder characterized by impaired blood clotting due to a deficiency of prothromin, a blood protein necessary for blood coagulation. The condition leads to a heightened risk of bleeding particularly in the cranial vault, gastrointestinal system and superficial integumentary system.
11876	Hyposmia is a sensory defect that results to the reduced sense of smell. The nose fails to recognize differences in odor properly. This is different, but associated with anosmia, where the nose can't smell odors at all. This condition can be due to allergies and infections that occurred in the nose, and is also a sign of premature Parkinson's disease.
11877	Hypospadias is a condition among males that is characterized by an abnormally placed urinary opening. It is a birth defect where instead of being situated at the tip of the of the penis, the urinary opening is found along the underside of the penile shaft to the part where the penis meets the scrotum. Hypospadias are among the most common birth defect of the male genitalia.
11878	Hyposplenism is a disorder characterized by reduced functions of the spleen.
11879	In physiology and medicine, hypotension pertains to an abnormal low blood pressure. This is studied as a physiologic state, rather than a disease. It is often associated with shock, but not necessarily indicative of it. Hypotension is the opposite of hypertension that is high blood pressure. Hypotension could be life-threatening.
11880	Hypothalamic dysfunction is a condition that involves the hypothalamus, a region in the brain that helps control the pituitary glands especially in responding to stress. The hypothalamus gland helps in the regulation if appetite and weight, balance of salt and water in the body, body temperature as well as emotions. Childbirth, growth, sleep and milk production are also regulated by the hypothalamus. The thyroid, ovaries, adrenal glands and testes are all controlled in turn by the pituitary gland.
11881	Hypothalamic hamartoblastoma syndrome, also known as Pallister-Hall syndrome syndrome, is a disease characterized by an abnormal growth in the brain known as hypothalamic hamartoma. Hypothalamic hamartoblastoma syndrome affects many parts of the body but does not pose serious complications most of the time. While the growths often do not cause any health problems they sometime lead to seizures and other life-threatening conditions. Some individuals with this disease have an obstruction in their anal opening, malformation of their airways and even kidney abnormalities.
11882	Hypothermia is a condition wherein the temperature of an organism drops below the level required for proper metabolism and bodily functions. The core body temperature of warm-blooded animals like humans are always maintained near a constant level. Hypothermia occurs when the body is subjected to very cold conditions that leads to inability of the body to replenish the heat lost.
11883	Hypothyroidism in children is a congenital defect in which the thyroid gland could not produce sufficient amount of thyroxine. Infants with this defect are most likely to develop mental retardation unless treated by thyroid replacement therapy. `
11884	Hypothyroidism is a condition characterized by insufficient production of the thyroid hormone by the thyroid gland.
11885	Hypotrichosis is a condition characterized by having a less than normal amount of hair on the head or body. Hypotrichosis is often confused with alopecia, or hair loss. In hypotrichosis as opposes to alopecia, there was never any hair in the first place. In hypotrichosis, the affected area is bald and remains bald for the rest of the life of the patient. There are three types of hypotrichosis, these are: 1.aplasia cutis congenita, a developmental disorder of unknown origin; 2.triangular alopecia, similar condition to aplasia cutis congenita but is distinguished by the identifying triangular patch in the head; 3.congenital atrichia, a congenital disorder where sometimes an individuals is born with a healthy head of hair but loses it at some point in his or her life.
11886	Hypotropia is a condition misalignment of eyes characterized by having the visual axis lower than the fellow fixating eye. A similar but opposite condition is called hypertrophy.
11887	Hypoxia is a condition characterized by a shortage of oxygen in the body. The term hypoxia literally means "lacking in oxygen." Related conditions include hypoxaemia, where oxygen in the blood is reduced, and anoxia, where there is complete absence of oxygen.
11888	Hysteria is a mental illness associated with other psychiatric disorders. It is characterized by dissociative and conversion reactions depending on the patient's condition.
11889	ICF Syndrome is a condition characterized by a weak immune system and anomalies in the face. ICF Syndrome is an inherited condition. The main feature of ICF Syndrome is variable immunodeficiency combined with centrometric instability of chromosome 1, 9, 16 and even 2. ICF syndrome is a rare condition that affects less than 200,000 people in the United States.
11890	Ichthyophobia is a type of phobia characterized by a fear of fish, The term encompasses fear of fish in general or fear of a specific kind of fish. A phobia is defined as an irrational and intense fear of something or someone.
11891	Ichthyosis vulgaris is a skin condition characterized by dry and scaly skin. It is the most common form of a general skin condition known as ichthyosis as it affects 1 in 250 people. This is why it is also sometimes called common ichthyosis.
11892	Icterus is another name for jaundice. It is the yellowing of the skin, mucous membranes and conjunctivae due to large amounts of bile secretions in the blood.
11893	ICU psychosis is a mental illness suffered by a person who has experienced traumas while undergoing treatment at a hospital's intensive care unit (ICU). This illness is characterized by delusions, hallucinations and short-term memory loss.
11894	Idiopathic eosinophilic pneumonia is a form of eosinophilic pneumonia wherein the cause is undetermined. Idiopathic eosinophilic pneumonia is a condition in which eosinophil a certain type of white blood cell, accumulates in the lung. Eosinophil cause disruption of the alveoli (air spaces). There are two forms of idiopathic eosinophilic pneumonia: acute eosinophilic pneumonia and chronic eosinophilic pneumonia.
11895	Adolescent Idiopathic Scoliosis (AIS) is a condition characterized by a side curvature of the spine, either to the left or to the right. AIS can occur in individuals from 10 years of age until maturity. It is called idiopathic because the cause of the curvature is still unknown. Genes are suspected for playing a big part in this condition.
11896	Idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis involves the scarring of the lung. The air sacs of the lungs gradually become replaced by fibrotic tissue. When the scar forms, the tissue becomes thicker resulting to an irreversible loss of the tissue's ability to transfer oxygen into the bloodstream.
11897	Idiopathic pulmonary haemosiderosis is a rare, sporadic, fatal, mostly in children with an equal sex distribution. The condition also arises in adults where there is a sex difference (M:F = 2:1). The patients present with recurrent attacks of pulmonary haemorrhage, acute phase: bat-wing alveolar infiltrates, clears rapidly, chronic findings: haemosiderosis, cor pulmonale, pulmonary fibrosis, .
11898	Idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura (ITP) is the condition of having a low platelet count (thrombocytopenia) of an unknown cause (idiopathic). As most causes appear to be related to antibodies against platelets, it is also called immune thrombocytopenic purpura.
11899	One of the most prevalent immune deficiency disorders, IgA deficiency is defined as low blood serum levels of a special type of protein called immunoglobulin A (IgA). This deficiency hinders function of the immune system. People with this deficiency lack immunoglobulin A (IgA), a type of antibody that protects against infections of the mucous membranes that line the mouth, airways, and digestive tract. It is described as an undetectable serum IgA level in the presence of normal serum levels of IgG and IgM.
11900	Ileitis is the inflammation of the small intestine. When not treated, it can lead to peritonitis, a disease in which the small intestine becomes heavily damaged and will need to be replaced.
11901	Iliotibial Band Syndrome is one of the primary causes of lateral knee pain in runners. The iliotibial band is a superficial thickening of tissue on the outside of the thigh, extending from the outside of the pelvis, over the hip and knee, and inserting in the lower part of the knee. The band is crucial in stabilizing the knee during running, moving from behind the femur to the front during the gait cycle.
11902	Iliotibial band syndrome is a common injury suffered by the tibia. This occurs often to athletic persons and those who are highly engaged with strenuous activities such as running and weight lifting.
11903	Illum syndrome, also known as arthrogryposis multiplex congenita whistling face, is a kind of arthrogryposis multiplex congenita, a rare congenital disorder that causes multiple joint contractures and is characterized by muscle weakness and fibrosis.
11904	In dental terminology an "impacted" tooth refers to a tooth that has not been able to emerge fully into its expected position. This failure to erupt properly might occur since there is not enough room in the person's jaw to accommodate the tooth, or because the angulation of the tooth is improper.
11905	Impaired glucose tolerance (IGT) is a common pre-diabetic state in which insulin resistance may cause cardiovascular problems. It can be the start of the onset of type 2 diabetes mellitus. This condition can be treated by changes in diet and lifestyle to prevent the development of diabetes. Sugar intake must be limited and regular exercise must be practiced. Minerals such as carnitine are also helpful in regulating blood sugar levels.
11906	An imperforate anus or anal atresia is a congenital defect in which the rectum is malformed.
11907	An imperforate hymen refers to a partial or total closure of the hymen, the inner covering of the female genital area located inside the vulva. This is a congenital defect that occurred during the development of the fetus while the mother is pregnant. This condition can cause sterility and mild menstrual problems since menstrual flow passes through this area. But it can be treated by surgery once diagnosed.
11908	Impetigo is a superficial bacterial skin infection most common among children age 2-6 years. Mostly people who play close contact sports such as rugby, American football and wrestling are also susceptible, regardless of age. The name is from the Latin impetere ("assail"). It is also called as school sores.
11909	Impingement syndrome is a condition where the tendons of the rotator cuff rub and cause friction against the bones of the shoulder. This is commonly felt by people who incur injuries in the scapular area.
11910	Impossible Syndrome, also known as Chondrodysplasia situs inversus imperforate anus polydactyly, is a complex combination of human congenital malformations (birth defects). The malformations include chondrodysplasia (improper growth of bone and cartilage), situs inversus totalis (chest and abdominal organs all a mirror image of normal), hexadactyly (six digits) on hands and feet, cleft epiglottis and larynx, diaphragmatic hernia, pancreatic abnormalities, kidney abnormal on one side and absent on the other side, micropenis and ambiguous genitalia, and imperforate anus.
11911	Impotence is an inability to sustain an erection sufficient for sexual intercourse. Medical professionals commonly use the term "erectile dysfunction" to describe this disorder and to differentiate it from other problems that interfere with sexual intercourse, such as lack of sexual desire and problems with ejaculation and orgasm.
11912	Amoniacidura is a descriptive term used to cindicate the excretion of one or more amino acids in the urine in amounts greater than those usually encountered.
11913	Inborn errors of metabolism are made up of a large class of genetic diseases involving disorders of metabolism. The majority are due to defects of single genes that code for enzymes that facilitate conversion of various substances into others (products). In most of the disorders, problems occur due to accumulation of substances which are toxic or interfere with normal function, or to the effects of reduced ability to synthesize essential compounds. Inborn errors of metabolism are now often called congenital metabolic diseases or inherited metabolic diseases, and these terms are considered synonymous.
11914	Sporadic inclusion body myositis (acronym: sIBM) is a rare condition marked by gradually progressive wasting and weakness of the proximal and distal muscles. This inflammatory muscle disease is most evident in the muscles of the legs and arms. Two progressive processes, one degenerative and the other autoimmune, seem to occur simultaneously in the muscle cells. In the autoimmune aspect, the T cells are cloned, seemingly driven by certain antigens to invade the fibers of the muscles. In the degeneration aspect, holes (vacuoles) appear in the muscle, with amyloid-related protein deposits and abnormal filamentous inclusions appearing in the cells.
11915	Inclusion conjunctivitis is an inflammation of the conjunctiva (the membrane that lines the eyelids and covers the white part, or sclera, of the eyeball) by the chlamydia trachomatis.
11916	Urinary incontinence is any involuntary leakage of urine. It is a common and distressing problem, which may have a profound impact on quality of one's life. Urinary incontinence almost always arises from an underlying treatable medical condition.
11917	Incontinentia Pigmenti (IP) is a genetic disorder that affects the skin, hair, nails and teeth. It is also called Bloch Sulzberger syndrome, Bloch Siemens syndrome, melanoblastosis cutis and naevus pigmentosus systematicus.
11918	The condition is also referred to as an upset stomach where in an individual feels a discomfort in the upper abdomen. It is also a group of symptoms that usually includes nausea, heartburn, bloating and belching.
11919	Infant respiratory distress syndrome ("RDS", also known as "Respiratory distress syndrome of newborn", previously called hyaline membrane disease), is a syndrome caused in premature infants by developmental insufficiency of surfactant production and structural immaturity in the lungs. It can also arise from a genetic problem with the production of surfactant associated proteins. RDS affects around 1% of newborn infants and is the leading cause of death in preterm infants.
11920	Infantile paralysis is the old name for the disease poliomyelitis (or polio). It is an infectious disease transmitted from one's saliva or feces, and it can lead to paralysis and muscle dystrophy.
11921	Infantile spasms, or West syndrome, is an interictal EEG pattern termed hypsarrhythmia, and mental retardation, although the diagnosis can be made even if one of the 3 elements is missing (according to the international classification). This severe epilepsy syndrome is an age-dependent manifestation of a damaged brain.
11922	Spinal Muscular Atrophy (SMA) is a term used to describe a number of different disorders, all having in common a genetic cause and the manifestation of weakness due to loss of the motor neurons of the spinal cord and brainstem.
11923	Infectious arthritis is a form of joint inflammation that is caused by a germ. The germ can be a virus, bacterium, or a fungus. Infection of the joints typically occurs after a previous infection elsewhere in the body.
11924	Infective endocarditis (IE) is an infection affecting the endocardial surface of the heart. The intracardiac effects of this infection include severe valvular insufficiency, which may result to intractable congestive heart failure and myocardial abscesses.
11925	Infertility means not being able to become pregnant after a year of trying. If a woman keeps on having miscarriages, it is also called infertility. Several couples have infertility problems. For the third of the time, infertility can be traced to the woman. In another third case, it is because of the man. While the rest of the time, it is because of either partners or no cause is found.
11926	Inflammatory Bowel Disease refers to two chronic diseases that cause inflammation of the intestines: ulcerative colitis and Crohn's disease. While the diseases have some features in common, there are some important differences.
11927	Inflammatory breast cancer is a rare but aggressive type of breast cancer that progresses rapidly, making the affected breast red, swollen and tender. It's a locally advanced cancer, which means it has spread from its point of origin to nearby tissue and possibly to nearby lymph nodes.
11928	Influenza, more commonly known as "the flu," is an illness caused by viruses that infect the respiratory tract. Compared with most other viral respiratory infections, such as the common cold, influenza infection often leads to a more severe illness with a mortality rate (death rate) of about 0.1% of people who are infected with the virus.
11929	An ingrown toenail is a common condition in which the corner or side of one of the toenails grows into the soft flesh of that toe. The result is pain, swelling, redness, and sometimes, an infection. An ingrown toenail usually affects the big toe.
11930	Inguinal hernias occur when soft tissue - usually part of the intestine - protrudes through a weak point or tear in the lower abdominal wall. The resulting bulge of this common condition can be painful - especially when the person coughs, bends over or lifts a heavy object
11931	Inguinal hernias happen when the soft tissue sticks out through a fragile point or cut in the lower abdominal wall which can be painful when coughing, bending or lifting heavy objects.
11932	Insomnia is a sleeping disorder characterized by persistent difficulty falling asleep or staying asleep despite the opportunity. It is typically followed by functional impairment while staying awake. Insomniacs is known to complain about unable to close their eyes or "rest their mind" for more than a few minutes at a time. Both organic and non-organic insomnia results a sleep disorder.
11933	Insulin resistance is the condition in which normal amounts of insulin are inadequate to produce a normal insulin response from fat, muscle and liver cells. Insulin resistance in fat cells reduces the effects of insulin and results in elevated hydrolysis of stored triglycerides in the absence of measures which either increase insulin sensitivity or which has additional insulin.
11934	An insulinoma is a tumour of the pancreas derived from the beta cells which while keeping the ability to synthesize and secrete insulin is autonomous of the normal feedback mechanisms.
11935	Intercostal neuralgia is a rare condition wherein abdominal pain is very much present. It is characterized by the swelling of the thorax-abdomen region located at the rib cage.
11936	Intermittent claudication is the occurrence of cramp-like pain on the calves. This usually occurs during heavy exercise or in the midst of strenuous physical activity. SYMPTOMS
11937	Intermittent explosive disorder is a behavioral disorder characterized by extreme expressions of anger, often to the point of uncontrollable rage, that are disproportionate to the situation at hand. It is usually categorized in the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders as an impulse control disorder. IED belongs to the greater family of Axis I impulse control disorders listed in the DSM-IV-TR, along with kleptomania, pyromania, pathological gambling, and others.
11938	Internal bleeding is a process where blood vessels are suddenly ruptured despite the absence of an open wound. This is more popularly known as internal hemorrhage.
11939	Interstitial cystitis (IC) is the term used to describe a clinical syndrome characterized by chronic urinary urgency (feeling the need to urinate immediately) and frequency (frequent urination) with or without pelvic pain.
11940	Interstitial Lung Disease refers to a cluster of lung disorders. It usually involves certain lung areas like the tissues of the alveoli, basement membrane (structures supporting overlying epithelial and endothelial cells), pulmonary capillary endothelium, perilymphatic and perivascular tissues. The term Interstitial Lung Disease is used to make a distinction of the disease classified as belonging to this group from obstructive airway ailments. Although the majority of diseases in this group include fibrosis in the later stage, the term pulmonary fibrosis is completely disregarded in identifying this disease.
11941	An irritation of touching skin surfaces in body fold regions (armpits, under the breasts, buttocks, belly, groin and sometimes between toes or fingers) is called intertrigo. It can be worsened by any conditions causing increased heat, friction and wetness and may be complicated by superficial skin infection with yeast or bacteria.
11942	Bands of fibrous tissue that connect the loops of the intestines to each other, to the abdominal organs or to the intestines of the abdominal wall result to intestinal adhesions. The bands can pull several sections of the intestines out of place.
11943	Intestinal flu, also known as viral gastroenteritis, is the inflammation of the gastrointestinal tract. It is a common illness that usually results to vomiting and diarrhea.
11944	A diminished blood flow to the small intestine or colon is referred to as intestinal ischemia.
11945	Intestinal lipodystrophy, or Whipple's disease, is a rare bacterial infection that most often affects the gastrointestinal system. It interferes with normal digestion, impairing the breakdown of foods such as fats and carbohydrates and hampering the body's ability to absorb nutrients.
11946	Intestinal obstruction is a condition where the rectal passage is partially or completely blocked. In this state, the elements that have to be released by the body would not be able to pass through.
11947	It is an uncommon condition accompanied by symptoms similar to those that cause bowel obstruction or blockage. Though, when the intestines are check there is no blockage found instead the obstruction is due to nerve or muscle problems that affects food, fluid or air movement.
11948	Intestinal pseudo-obstruction is the weakened ability of the intestines to completely push food through. Intestinal pseudo-obstruction is classified into two categories: primary condition and secondary condition. Primary conditions are those with unknown cause (idiopathic), it can also be inherited from a parent; while secondary conditions are those caused by a different underlying ailment.
11949	An intracranial hematoma occurs when a blood vessel ruptures within the brain or between the skull and the brain. The collection of blood (hematoma) compresses the brain tissue.
11950	Spontaneous intracranial hypotension is probably an under diagnosed cause of headache, even though it is estimated to affect only about one in 50,000 individuals.
11951	Intraductal carcinoma, or ductal carcinoma in situ (DCIS), is when abnormal cells multiply and form a growth within a milk duct of your breast.
11952	Intraocular lymphoma is a rare malignant form of eye cancer that is capable of quickly spreading to the brain.
11953	Intraocular melanoma, a rare cancer, is a disease in which cancer (malignant) cells are found in the area of the eye called the uvea.
11954	Intratuterine growth retardation (IGR) refers to a condition wherein an infant is born smaller than the normal size. Babies in this condition are often described to be small for their gestational age.
11955	Intrauterine dwarfism is a rare growth disorder also known as the Russel-Silver syndrome. It is one of the five types of primordial dwarfism.
11956	Intussusception is a medical condition where a section of the bowel folds towards another part or the rectal area. This is congenital disease.
11957	Lobular carcinoma in situ (LCIS) is not a cancer, but its presence means that there is a small increase in the risk of developing breast cancer later on in life. Even so, majority of women with LCIS do not develop breast cancer.
11958	Iodine deficiency is the result of lack if iodine in the diet. Iodine deficiency induced disorders include goiter and cretinism, which is a medical and physical condition characterized by severely underdeveloped physical and mental growth.
11959	Iridocorneal endothelial syndrome is a disorder affecting the cornea of the eye. It is characterized by the decay of the corneal cells resulting to swelling, destruction of the iris and pupil, and limited passage of light into the eye. This disease is associated with Chandler's syndrome, iris atrophy and Cogan disease.
11960	Iridocyclitis is a medical condition characterized by inflammation in the middle layer or the whole interior of the eye. This is also referred to as a type of anterior uveitis, which is inflammation of the uvea of the eyes. Commonly it is described as inflammation of the iris and the ciliary body of the eye.
11961	Iritis is a medical condition that refers to the inflammation of the iris of the eye; it is considered as a form of anterior uveitis. Two types of Iritis are chronic and acute Iritis. Acute Iritis has the capability to heal by itself while Chronic Iritis does not easily respond to treatment, lasting for months or years and comes with a high risk for serious visual damage.
11962	Iron deficiency is a medical condition wherein the blood lacks sufficient amount of iron needed by the body. Iron is a nutrient needed to produce hemoglobin, a protein compound that makes up the red blood cells. The most common situation of iron deficiency is called iron-deficiency anemia.
11963	Iron deficiency anemia is the most common type of anemia, and is also known as sideropenic anemia. It is the very common cause of microcytic anemia. Iron deficiency anemia happens when the dietary intake or absorption of iron is insufficient, and hemoglobin, which contains iron, cannot be formed.
11964	In medicine, iron overload (also known as hemochromatosis) disorders are diseases caused by the accumulation of iron in the body.
11965	Iron poisoning is a disease brought about by excessive iron intake. This can be an effect of consuming abnormally high amounts of iron supplements,
11966	Arrhythmia, also known as an irregular heartbeat, is a condition where the heart beats either lower or faster than the normal heart beat of 50 to 100 beats per minute. Arrhythmias can occur even to those people with regular heart rate.
11967	Irritable bladder, or overactive bladder, is a problem with bladder function resulting in a sudden urge to urinate that is difficult to suppress. It may also result to incontinence, the involuntary loss of urine.
11968	Irritable Bowel Syndrome, also known as Spastic Colon is a functional bowel disorder distinguished with abdominal pain and bowel habit changes. This disorder is relatively common and comprises up to 20% - 50% of consultations to gastroenterologists.
11969	Isaac's syndrome, also referred to as continuous muscle fiber activity syndrome, is a rare degenerative disorder of the muscles brought about by damaged impulses sent by the peripheral nervous system. Among the common symptoms of the illness are chronic muscle cramps, stiffness and muscle pain even during one's sleep.
11970	Ischemic colitis is a medical condition mostly found in adults at 50 years of age or older. It is a condition in which the colon is inflamed and injured. The condition is also called colonic ischemia .
11971	Itch is defined as an unpleasant sensation that evokes the desire or reflex to scratch. Itch has many similarities to pain and both are unpleasant sensory experiences but their behavioral response patterns vary.
11972	IV infection is a complication brought about IV insertion procedures. Breaks in the skin may allow the passage of skin-dwelling bacteria such as Candida albicans and Coagulase-negative Staphyloccocus, which are either inside the catheter and other contaminated equipment. Moisture can impose greater risks of the infection. When not treated, the infection may spread and cause a more serious disease, septicemia.
11973	Ivy poison is a lacquer-like substance released by the poison ivy plant as a device for self-protection. The substance is released whenever a foreign body brushes on the leaves of the plant.
11974	Jackson-Weiss Syndrome is a rare genetic disorder characterized by bone malformation including fusion of foot bones and premature joining together of some bones in the skull, which impedes the normal growth of the skull; thus create deformity to the face and head.
11975	Jacobsen syndrome is a medical condition categorized as a very rare chromosomal disorder with the absence of chromosome 11q. It can be the cause of mild mental retardation, a characteristic facial appearance, and many medical problems like heart ailments and bleeding disorders. Generally, it affects numerous phases of mental and physical advancement.
11976	Japanese Encephalitis is a medical ailment caused by the mosquito-borne Japanese encephalitis virus. The mosquito Culex tritaeniorhynchus is the most significant carrier of the disease. Incidents of acquiring the disease are most common in Southeast Asian countries and the Far Eastern countries.
11976	It is a serious viral disease that is transmitted by infected mosquitoes in the agricultural areas of Asia. The virus infection affects the central nervous system and can lead to serious problems and even death.
11977	Jarcho-Levin syndrome is a rare, genetic disorder characterized by abnormalities in the axial skeleton; usually referred to as spinal column abnormalities. Due to some thorax malformations, patients suffering from Jarcho-Levin syndrome are at a higher risk for life-threatening pulmonary complications. It is also described as short trunk dwarfism with abnormalities in the thorax causing thoracic insufficiency. The vertebrate are fused, preventing the rib cage from developing properly, consequently the chest cavity becomes too small to be big enough for the growing lungs.
11978	Jaundice is the yellowish staining of the skin and sclerae (the whites of the eyes) that is caused by high levels in blood of the chemical bilirubin. The color of the skin and sclerae is depending on the level of bilirubin. When the bilirubin level is slowly elevated, they are yellowish. When the bilirubin level is high, it tends to be brown.
11979	Jaundice in newborns is a condition where increased bile pigment causes yellowish skin and eyes. This is due to a congenital damage in the red blood cells. Infants suffering from this condition may be because of a prenatal mismatch between the Rh factor in their blood and that of their mothers. Jaundice can also be brought about by a temporary enzymatic defect called hyperbilirubinemia.
11980	Jejunum is the central part of the small intestine, lying between the duodenum and the ileum. In Jejunal atresia, a part of the small intestine is completely absent or closed. Patients with this disorder are born with a missing stomach membrane fold connecting the small intestine to the abdominal back wall. Consequently, the jejunum twists around the marginal artery causing a blockage. This rare birth defect is also described as malformation of the jejunum.
11981	Jervell and Lange-Nielsen syndrome is a rare medical condition; a type of Long QT syndrome. The disorder causes the muscles of the heart takes longer than average to recharge after every heartbeat. Once left untreated, the irregular heartbeats can lead to fainting and seizure attacks. Worse scenario would be sudden death. It is an autosomal recessive disorder that may cause loss of hearing (deafness).
11982	It was in the year 1966 that the Job syndrome was first described as the hyper-IgE/HIE or hyperimmunoglobulin E syndrome which is a very rare immunodeficiency disease. This disorder can be inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern. HIE has changing expressivity and is linked with several other abnormalities. The general findings are recurring abscesses of the skin (this is why it is called the Job syndrome, derived from the biblical character Job); high IgE serum levels; pneumonia which comes with pneumatocele development; and dental, facial or skeletal defects. Most cases of this disorder are sporadic but there are cases of multiplex families who display autosomal recessive and autosomal dominant inheritance. Autosomal recessive individuals usually have acute molluscum contagiosm. Also, it is possible for neurological complications to develop because of other viral infections. The patients also lack dental or skeletal involvement and they do not develop cysts of the lungs. A few authorities have the belief that 2 separate syndromes are in existence, not just one.
11983	Jock itch, also known as tinea cruris, is a fungal infection of the skin in the groin. The warm, moist environment is the best place for the fungus to grow.
11984	The Johnson Munson syndrome or aphalangy, urogenital-intestinal and hemivertibrae dysgenesis is a very rare syndrome which has been observed in only three siblings. It is associated with aplisia of the phalanges of the feet and hands or hypoplasia; hermivertibrea, and several other intestinal and/or urogenital defects. Intrafamiliar variability is highly important as one of the three siblings (a sister) had fatal defects (pulmonary hypoplasia and Potter syndrome). The other brother who was also sick with the syndrome was in great health and he had a normal development of his psychomotor skills at the sixth month of age.
11985	Joseph disease, also known in names such as the Machado-Joseph disease and spinocerebral ataxia type 3, is a rare disorder characterized by lack of muscle control.
11986	Joubert syndrome is a genetic disorder that is very rare. This disorder affects the brain areas which control coordination and balance. It was first identified by a pediatric neurologist named Marie Joubert from Montreal in Canada. The physician was then working with McGill Neurological Institute.
11987	A part of every human's instinct of survival includes sudden reaction to unexpected stimulus. Often, the reaction is a startle which is a reflexive movement to get away from the stimulus. This reaction also causes change of blood pressure and respiration. Among normal people, this could only last for seconds but for those who suffer from Jumping Frenchmen of Maine disorder, the result could be very interesting (and in some cases, shocking). Jumping Frenchmen of Maine is a very rare disease which was originally described in 1878 by a certain George Miller Beard.
11988	Juvenile dermatomyositis or JDM is an autoimmune disorder which causes vasculitis manifesting itself among children; and it is a pediatric equivalent of dermatomyositis. JDM manifests vasculitis an inflammation which is caused by the attack of the body's immune system to the blood vessels. In the US, the rate of occurrence of JDM is estimated to be 3 in every 1,000,000 children annually. This is about 300 to 500 fresh cases every year or about 3,000 to 5,000 children. Other types of juvenile myositis include juvenile inclusion-body myositis (JIBM) and juvenile polymyositis (JPM). These two other types are very rare and are not that as common among children. The underlying cause of Juvenile dermatomyositis is still unknown. It is most probable that it has a genetic component such as other autoimmune diseases (inherited within the family). The most common triggering factors include infections, immunizations, sunburn and injuries.
11989	Juvenile myoclonic epilepsy or JME is also called the Janz syndrome. This is a common type of idiopathic generalized epilepsy which represents 5-10% of all the types of epilepsies. This disease manifests primarily between the 12th-18th month and with myoclonus showing very early during the morning. Most of the patients also manifest absence and tonic-clonic seizures. Studies have shown at least six loci for JME of which 4 have specific causative genes. Most of the genes are ion channels together with the sole non-ion channel gene after manifesting effects on currents of ion channel.
11990	A name given to a skin problem on the feet of children and may occasionally develop similar signs to the hands is called juvenile plantar dermatosis. Tending to gradually improve, it is seen most often in boys aged four to eight. Juvenile plantar dermatosis is also called sweaty sock syndrome where the sole of the forefoot becomes shiny and glazed. The top of the toes and other parts other parts of the feet may also be affected while toewebs are spared and the skin becomes scaly. Taking many weeks to heal, painful cracks (fissures) develop under the toes and on the ball of the foot. Sweaty sock syndrome is usually severe during the summer months.
11991	JRA or Juvenile rheumatoid arthritis is not just a single illness. It is, in fact, a group of illnesses of unidentified etiology. The manifestation is a chronic inflammation of the joint. Treatment advances in the last thirty years have altered the prognosis for the more acute types of this disease. The first treatment is limited with only the use of salicylates and other non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs or NSAIDs. The initial treatment resulted into numerous patients being bound to their wheelchairs. Some patients tried synovectomies to get rid of tissue excesses which result from uncontrolled arthritis. The second-line medicines that were added have improved the prognosis for those who suffered from JRA. It started with gold salt injection and gradually replaced by MTX or methotrexate which is a more effective solution. These drugs are administered with team approach background in centers of pediatric rheumatology. In there, occupational and physical therapies have allowed much improved physical functions. The introduction of etanercept (which is a biologic enemy of tumor necrosis factor or TNF) has introduced a new era in treatments. A few more biologic agents such as the anakinra (which is an IL-1 or interleukin-1 receptor opponent) could be used in some patients who are not responsive to second-line medication. The future holds an inhibition of IL-6 which could be effective in systemic sufferers with JRA with high levels.
11992	Schizophrenia is one of the most complex of all psychological health disorders. It is a severe, chronic, and disabling disturbance of the brain that leads to distorted thinking, strange feelings, and unusual behavior and use of language and words.
11993	Kabuki syndrome also called as Kabuki makeup syndrome (KMS) or Niikawa Kuroki syndrome in the past, is a rare pediatric inborn disease. This congenital disorder has no known cause and comes with numerous inborn anomalies and retardation of mental development. It was discovered by Niikawa and Kuroki who were Japanese scientists. It was named Kabuki syndrome because the individuals who are affected by this illness look like Kabuki dolls or Kabuki performers who are wearing white makeup. The name term Niikawa-Kuroki syndrome, obviously, relates to the two scientists who made the discovery of the illness.
11994	Kallman syndrome, by itself, is a type of hypogonadism (which is a decrease in the function of the sex glands that produce hormones). This is caused by a lack of GnRH hormone (the one that releases gonadotropin). The term Spastic paraplegia with Kallman syndrome has not been discussed in the previous years. This is a very rare genetic disease which is characterized chiefly by lower leg weakness and mild spasticity. Other signs include lack of production of the sex hormones and also the inability to smell odors.
11995	Kaolin is processed by, first, removing it from seams that are underground in an area of mining. The process involves slicing, drying, and pulverizing to make a finished product. A study was done to know the concentration of kaolin dust in different areas of work. The study was also set up to be able to assess the occurrence of pulmonary and radiographic function defects among workers. There were 65 subjects from the Georgia kaolin mines. It was noted that the respirable concentrations of kaolin dust were at their peak in the areas where the product was being processed as compared to the mine or areas of maintenance. The study ran through 1977 until 1981. The kaolin dust level that is was respirable in the processing are in the year 1981 was at 1.74 milligrams/m3 and 0.14 milligrams/m3 in the area of mining. 5 of the workers from the processing area had evidences, confirmed by radiography, of kaolin pneumoconiosis. The FVC or the forced vital capacity and FEV1 mean values for the entire group were observed to be in the normal range. When the spirometric quantities were stated as a percentage or portion of the values that were predicted, the FEV1 and FVC were noticeably lower among workers with kaolinosis than among workers from within the processing area. Both the FEV1 and the FVC have declined considerably as the years progress and the worker remains working in the processing area. The FEV1/FVC%, on the other hand, was not changed significantly by either the kaolinosis presence or by the increase in work years. This indicates that the defect was confined and thus very likely to be a result of inhalation of the kaolin dust as compared to smoking.
11996	Moritz Kaposi, a Hungarian dermatologist was the first one to describe Kaposi's sarcoma, as a tumor caused by Human Herpes Virus 8 (HHV8). HHV8 is the eight human herpes virus. Kaposi's sarcoma is the cancer that usually comes about in many AIDS suffering patients.
11997	Karsch Neugebauer syndrome (Ectrodactyly) also known as "lobster claw syndrome", is a rare congenital (present at birth) deformity of the hand. This deformity is characterized by webbing of the fingers or toes. This unusual placement or position presents the hand to look like the claws of a lobster. This disorder also exhibits a missing toe or a missing finger. Other names that this disorder goes by are split hand deformity, lobster claw hand, cleft hand, ectrodactilia of the hand, and split hand/foot malformation.
11998	Kartagener syndrome is a rare autosomal recessive genetic disorder, which causes the cilia (tiny, hair-like structures) to be faulty or defective; thus prevent it from functioning properly. The cilia line the respiratory tract and fallopian tubes. It acts as the sweeper by brushing off all inhaled particles of dust, smoke, and other microbes out of the respiratory tract. Essentially, if the cilia are not functioning well, mucus and other inhaled germs will remain in the lungs, allowing the development of recurring infections in the lungs.
11999	Kaufman Oculocerebrofacial syndrome is an autosomal recessive disorder. This rare genetic medical condition is characterized by some abnormal looking facial features including small head, narrow face, eye anomalies, small mandible, upslanting palpebral fissure (the distance between the upper and lower eyelids), highly arched palates, and preauricular skin tags. Severely inflicted people show very obvious facial features of a mentally retarded person.
12000	Kawasaki Syndrome is a medical condition with unknown cause that results in inflammation of the walls of the blood vessels (vasculitis) and primarily affects young children.
12001	Kearns-Sayre syndrome is a neuromuscular disorder of a genetic origin. However, it is different from other mitochondrial disorders because it occurs periodically and not maternally inherited. Onset of the disorder usually occurs before the person reaches the age of 20.
12002	Keloids are type of scars characterized by significant marks of skin elevation; it is an overgrowth of tissue on the exact location of the healed skin injury. Keloids usually occur after an injury or surgery. Keloids are usually firm, fibrous lesions. Keloids are non-contagious and non-malignant at the same time. Not like scars, keloids do not sink in size. Keloids often form on the back, chest, earlobes, and shoulder. The face is not primarily at a risk of developing keloids.
12003	Kennedy disease is a rare hereditary disease affecting the nerves and muscles (neuromuscular). Females can be carriers of the disease but only males present the symptoms of the disease. Kennedy Disease is also known as X-linked spinal and bulbar muscular atrophy.
12004	Keratitis is the scarring of the cornea of they eye. This scarring can cause severe infections that may lead to vision loss or blindness. A common kind of this condition is dendric keratitis; it is a scarring brought about by herpes zoster infections. The disease can be treated with idoxuridine as well as vidarabine.
12005	Keratoacanthoma is a fairly common, epithelial tumor. Formerly, it was regarded as variant of Squamous Cell Carcinoma; a form of malignant cancer that occur in many different organs of the body including the skin, lips, esophagus, and mouth among other else. It is a disease common in the elderly. Keratoacanthoma usually disappears by itself within a period of time; it is non-contagious.
12006	Keratoconjunctivitis Sicca is an eye condition commonly known as, "dry eyes". It is characterized by decreased in tear production and involves inflammation of the conjunctiva. In the common language, Keratoconjunctivitis Sicca means dryness of the conjunctiva and cornea. Other names for this disorder includes: xerophthmalia, dry eye syndrome, Sicca syndrome, keratitis Sicca.
12007	A rare degenerative disorder marked by a progressive thinning and cone-shape appearance of the cornea of the eyes; it is categorized as a non-inflammatory eye ailment. It is considered as the most usual type of corneal dystrophy in the US.
12008	A skin condition affecting the soles of the feet and, less commonly, the palm of the hands is called pitted keratolysis, which is caused by a bacterial infection of the skin and may give off an unpleasant odor.
12009	Keratosis is the abnormal growth of keratin on the skin. It has three types, keratosis pilaris, actinic keratosis and seborrheic keratosis.
12010	Keratosis Pilaris is a common skin condition that is limited to hair follicles. It is characterized by the development of uneven lumps in the skin. Its appearance resembles the skin of the chicken; precisely the reason why many refer to it as "chicken skin." Presence of these bumps are usually predominant on the back, upper arms (outer side), and other body surfaces (except the soles of feet and palms). It is always mistaken to be acne when present in the face. Keratosis Pilaris is not a serious medical condition and has no capacity to bring about serious health conditions.
12011	Seborrheic Keratosis is a benign skin growth that can occur during puberty but are more common in older people starting at the age of 40. Seborrheic Keratosis is often illustrated as to having a "pasted-on" appearance because growth only involves the top layer of the outermost layer of the skin (epidermis). It is also described as a thickening condition of the skin that increases with age.`
12012	A scalp condition that occurs in severe cases of scalp ringworm (tinea capitis), appearing as an inflamed, thickened, pus-filled area, and it is sometimes accompanied by a fever is called kerion. Commonly seen in children, the underlying condition, scalp ringworm is a usually harmless fungal infection of the hair and scalp that occurs as scaly spots and patches of broken hair on the head.
12013	Kernicterus is a rare medical condition associated with high levels of bilirubin in the blood. Bilirubin build up in the brain can cause serious brain damage and other neurological problems. Kernicterus is a serious medical condition characterized by serious damage to the brain, due to excessive amount of bilirubin that entered the brain, which settled in the basal ganglia.
12014	Ketotic glycinemia, also referred to as propionic acidemia, is an autosomal recessive disorder that affects the amino acid production.
12015	Kidney cancer is also known as renal cell carcinoma arising from the renal tubule. It is the most common kind of kidney cancer in adults. It is notoriously resistant to radiation therapy and chemotherapy, although some cases respond to immunotheraphy.
12016	Kidney failure is a condition in which the kidneys no longer respond to treatment resulting to the death of the organs. it is a result of different diseases that affect the kidneys.
12017	Acute kidney failure is the sudden loss of the kidneys' ability to perform their main function - eliminate excess fluid and electrolytes as well as waste material from the blood. When the kidneys lose their filtering ability, dangerous levels of fluid, electrolytes and waste accumulate in the body.
12018	Kidney infection (pyelonephritis) is a specific type of urinary tract infection (UTI) that generally begins in your urethra or bladder and travels up into your kidneys. Kidney infection, or pyelonephritis, very often results when a bacterial infection moves from the lower urinary tract like bladder, urethra to the kidneys.
12019	Kidney stone also called renal calculi, are solid concretions (crystal aggregations) of dissolved minerals in urine; calculi typically form inside the kidneys or bladder. The terms nephrolithiasis and urolithiasis pertains to the presence of calculi in the kidneys and urinary tract, respectively.
12020	Kikuchi Disease is a rare lymph node disorder causing large and inflamed lymph nodes. It is not cancerous. It is also known as histiocytic necrotizing lymphadenitis; which was first identified in 1972 by Dr. M.Kikuchi in Japan.
12021	King-Denborough Syndrome is the termed used for the combination of the particular characteristics of people with malignant hyperthermia. King-Denborough syndrome is a usually inherited reaction to exposure to general anesthesia and its component drug like volatile anesthetics. It is a rare life-threatening condition. Malignant hyperthermia is an autosomal dominant disorder that is usually inherited. It is genetically related to Central Core Disease (CCD), another autosomal dominant disorder that is remarkable by MH symptoms and neuromuscular disease that leads to muscle weakness. Exposure to drugs of this kind can lead to circulatory collapse and worse, death if left untreated.
12022	Infectious mononucleosis (mono), or glandular fever, is usually called the kissing disease.
12023	Kleine-Levin Syndrome is a rare disease identified by periods of too much, unnecessary sleepiness that can reach to 20 hours of sleep; excessive food intake (compulsive hyperphagia); hypersexuality or abnormally uncontrolled sexual drive. This rare disorder is more probable to occur in males in their puberty rather than females.
12024	Kleptomania is an inability or great difficulty in resisting impulses of stealing. Kleptomania is recognized from shoplifting or ordinary theft, as shoplifters and thieves generally steal for monetary value, or associated gains and usually display intent or premeditation, while people with kleptomania are not necessarily contemplating the value of the items they steal or even the theft until they are compelled.
12025	Klinefelter's syndrome is a rare chromosomal genetic syndrome characterized by having XXY chromosomes instead of XX or XY chromosomes. Sufferers of this syndrome are usually males because of the presence of Y chromosomes. This syndrome is considered as the second most common extra chromosome condition. Usually called with other names as XXY or XXY syndrome, this condition was first described in 1942 by Dr. Edward Klinefelter, an endocrinologist at Massachusetts General Hospital in Boston, Massachusetts.
12026	Klippel Trenaunay-Weber Syndrome is a medical condition wherein blood vessels and lymph vessels fail to form as it should be. It is characterized by benign skin growths comprised of blood vessels, numerous lymph tissues, and varicose veins.
12027	Klippel-Feil Syndrome is a rare medical condition described as the congenital fusion of any two (2) of the seven (7) vertebrae located in the neck. This rare disorder was first accounted by Maurice Klippel and Andre Feil from France in the year 1912.
12028	Klumpke's paralysis is paralysis of the brachial plexus. Brachial plexus is the arrangement of nerve fibres from above the fifth cervical (neck) vertebrae to the bottom of the first thoracic vertebrae extending through the neck, armpit and the arm. It is also described as paralysis of the forearm and muscles of the hand. Klumpke's paralysis is also known with other names as Klumpke's palsy or Dejerine-Klumpke palsy. The risk of developing this rare condition is greater if the mother is small and when the neonate is too large to pass the pubic symphysis of the mother.
12029	Kluver-Bucy syndrome is a kind of disorder that develops when the right and left medial temporal lobes start to malfunction. People with this disease show lesions in the temporal lobes; they also exhibit socially inadequate licking or touching behaviors, bulimia, memory problems, hypersexuality and placidity, as well as the inability to recognize faces and objects. This disorder rarely develops in humans.
12030	Kluver-Bucy syndrome is a behavioral disorder that comes about due to malfunction of the right and left medial temporal lobes of the brain.
12031	Kniest Dysplasia is a rare genetic bone growth disorder; it is an uncommon kind of inherited disorder. It is a subtype of Type II and XI collagenopathies, which are described as group of disorders that affect the tissue supporting the body's joints and organs. This disorder is usually exemplified by dwarfism, skeletal anomalies, enlarged joints, as well as vision and hearing deficiencies.
12032	Kohler Disease is a rare bone disorder taking place on the foot usually occurring in children aging from six to nine years old. A German radiologist named Alban Kohler was the first to describe this disease in 1908. Kohler disease usually affects boys, but girls can also develop this kind of disease.
12033	Korsakoff's syndrome is a degenerative disease of the brain, which is caused by deficit amounts of thiamine (Vitamin B1) present in the brain. The syndrome's name was derived from the name of the neuropsychiatrist who made this theory popular, Sergei Korsakoff. This disease is also known as Korsakoff's psychosis and amnesic confabulatory syndrome.
12034	Kostmann Syndrome is a rare disease usually distinguished and identified soon after birth. This is an uncommon inherited type of Severe Chronic Neutropenia; which is a blood disorder marked by abnormally low number of neutrophil granulocytes. Neutrophils (a type of white blood cells) are essential for fighting infection. Kostmann syndrome was formerly presented and defined as an autosomal-recessive disorder, marked by early phase maturation arrest of myelopoiesis. Kostmann Syndrome was named after Dr. Kostmann, a Swedish doctor who first discovered the disease in 1956.
12035	Krabbe disease (also called globoid cell leukodystrophy or galactosylceramide lipidosis) is a rare, often fatal degenerative disorder that affects the myelin sheath of the nervous system.
12036	Krause-van Schooneveld-Kivlin syndrome (also known as Peters-plus sundrome) is a hereditary syndrome that primarily affects the eyes, growth and development of the individual. It is also called Krause-Kivlin syndrome or Peters-plus syndrome.
12037	A Krukenberg tumor is a secondary ovarian abnormality in which an ovarian tumor grows in the gastrointestinal tract. These tumors are characterized by the presence of mucin-secreting signet-ring cells in the ovarian tissues.
12038	Kugelberg-Welander disease, or juvenile spinal muscular atrophy, is a disease that affects one's manner of walking, running and climbing steps.
12039	Kuru is a brain disease that became an endemic in Papua New Guinea. It is also called ?laughing sickness? due to the hallucinations the patients suffer due to the disease.
12040	Kuskokwim disease is a rare syndrome where abnormal muscle attachment causes abnormalities such as muscle wasting or excessive growth and contractures. It is a type of Arthrogryposis Multiplex Congenita, a rare congenital disorder that causes multiple joint contractures and is marked by muscle weakness and fibrosis.
12041	Kwashiorkor is the type of malnutrition that is commonly believed to be associated with inadequate protein intake. The common sufferers of Kwashiorkor are children with ages from one to four; however, older children and adults can also be inflicted with this condition. This usually occurs when a weaned children receives a diet replacement that high on carbohydrates and starch but low in protein.
12042	Kyasanur forest disease is a viral hemorrhagic fever that is usually transmitted by ticks (tick-borne). Like all tick-borne diseases, Kyasanur forest disease is caused by infection by a virus. In this case, the virus belongs to the flaviviridae family of virus. This virus mostly spread through arthropod vectors. This disease is prevalent in South Asia. This disease is also known as Monkey Disease and was reported from the Kyasanur Forest of Karnataka, India.
12043	Kyphosis is commonly described as curvature of the upper spine. The medical condition can be due to bad posture or any structural abnormality in the spine. There are several kinds of Kyphosis: Postural Kyphosis, Nutritional Kyphosis, Congenital Kyphosis, and Scheuermann's Kyphosis.
12044	Labrador Lung is kind of Pneumoconiosis. This medical condition is an occupational lung disease; a disease that is related to work associated exposures to various harmful elements. Labrador lung is primarily caused by inhalation of dust mixed with silica and other inorganic compounds like iron. The accumulated dusts are deposited in the lung; wherein it can create future health problems which may tend not to be non-existent for an extensive period of time.
12045	Labyrinthitis is a disorder associated with maintaining balance. The condition is an inflammatory process affecting the labyrinths (a part of the auditory system) that accommodates the vestibular system in the inner ear. The vestibular system is that part of the ear responsible for sensing head position changes.
12046	Lactose intolerance, also called lactase deficiency, means the person isn't able to fully digest the milk sugar (lactose) in dairy products. It's not usually dangerous, but symptoms of lactose intolerance can be uncomfortable enough to steer the person clear of the dairy aisles.
12047	Mastitis is an infection of the breast tissue that leads to pain, swelling and redness of the breast. Mastitis most frequently affects women who are breast-feeding, although in rare circumstances this condition can occur outside of lactation
12048	Lactic acidosis is a condition formed by the excess amounts of lactic acid in the body. This buildup causes loss of balance and coordination, shortness of breath and may lead to other complications such as diabetes and liver disease. Among the symptoms of lactic acidosis are rapid breathing and abdominal pain. Lactic acidosis may occur due to IV infections as well as dysfunctional mitochondrial functions.
12049	Lactose intolerance, also called lactase deficiency, means you aren't able to fully digest the milk sugar (lactose) in dairy products. It is not usually dangerous, but symptoms of lactose intolerance can be uncomfortable enough to steer you clear of the dairy aisles.
12050	Lafora disease is a deadly autosomal hereditary disease marked by the presence of inclusion bodies within the cells of neurons, heart, liver, skin, and muscles. These inclusion bodies are known as Lafora bodies. Lafora Disease is name after a Spanish neuropathologist, Gonzalo Rodriguez Lafora.
12051	Lambert-Eaton Myasthenic Syndrome is a rare autoimmune disorder that involves the neuromuscular junction. It has a great similarity with Myasthenia Gravis, but there are also obvious distinctions with the symptoms and pathogenetic features between the two medical conditions. The disease is common in middle aged and older people; however, this is not a guarantee that young people will have no chances of suffering the disease.
12052	Lamellar Ichthyosis is a rare inherited skin disorder. An infant born with this disorder is covered with a translucent membrane; after the membrane is cast off, it will reveal different sizes of red scaly skin patches.
12053	Landau-Kleffner syndrome is a rare, childhood neurological syndrome marked by the abrupt or slowly development of inability to understand or express language (aphasia) and an abnormal electroencephalogram or EEG. This is because the syndrome affects the part of the brain that is responsible for comprehension and speech control. Usually, this syndrome affects children aged 5 to 7 years old. This syndrome is also known as: infantile acquired aphasia, aphasia with convulsive disorder, and acquired epileptic aphasia.
12054	Landouzy-Dejerine muscular dystrophy, also known as Facioscapulohumeral muscular dystrophy is an autosomal dominant form of muscle weakness disorder. On the initial onset of this disorder, the first affected part is the facial, scapulo and humeral skeletal muscles. Landouzy-Dejerine muscular dystrophy is the third most prevalent genetic disease affecting the skeletal muscle.
12055	Langer-Giedion syndrome is a very rare genetic disorder that occurs when a chrosomal material is deleted. This syndrome is also known as trichorhinophalangeal syndrome or LGCR (for Langer-Giedion Chromosome Region). This medical condition is named after the two doctors dig into research about this condition during the 1960s.
12056	Langerhans cell histiocytosis is a medical condition characterized with the increased production of Langerhans cell. Langerhans cell are abnormal cells originating from the bone marrow and have the capability to drift from the skin to the lymph nodes. Langerhans cell histiocytosis was formerly referred to as histiocytosis X. The Histiocyte society renamed the disease in 1985.
12057	Laparoschisis, also known as gastroschisis is a medical condition characterized by an abnormal opening in the abdomen causing some of the abdominal contents to develop outside the fetal abdomen. Laparoschisis is also known by other medical names: abdominoschisis and paraomphalocele. This occurrence happens more on male infants compared to incidents reported on female infants.
12058	Laron-type dwarfism also known as Laron syndrome, is a autosomal recessive disorder; where the body has adequate amounts of growth hormones but is deficient with receptors needed to develop the growth hormones resulting to excessively short stature or dwarfism. Laron-type dwarfism is named after the Israeli researcher Zvi Laron, who reported the medical condition in 1966 after a longstanding observation that started in 1958.
12059	Larsen syndrome is a rare autosomal dominant genetic disease. It is a rare connective tissue disorder. This medical condition is very rare with the incidence occurring only 1 in every 100,000 people. Larsen syndrome was named after L.J. Larsen, who was responsible for writing about the condition in an article for the first time during the year 1952.
12060	Laryngeal cancer is the cancer of the larynx. It often results to permanent loss of voice or degeneration of the larynx.
12061	Laryngeal carcinoma is cancer of the laryngeal area. It is also referred to as cancer of the larynx or laryngeal cancer. Usually, laryngeal carcinomas are squamous cell carcinomas that come from the squamous cells that form a large part of the laryngeal cavity.
12062	Laryngeal Papillomatosis is a rare medical condition characterized by the development of tumors in the larynx, vocal chords, or respiratory tract. This medical condition is caused and triggered by Human Papilloma Virus (HPV) infection in the throat. In due course, these tumors will cause blockage to the airway passage, which may result to breathing problems.
12063	Laryngitis is the medical term for inflammation and swelling of the larynx, which is also known as the voice box. A lot of the causes of laryngitis, such as common viruses or using your voice too much, are not serious. there are few causes, however, require medical attention.
12064	Laryngocele is a rare medical condition where an air-filled sac connected with the larynx becomes enlarged. It can be of congenital nature. It can also be acquired. Players of wind instruments are probable victims of this rare disorder because of continuous strong expiration, which gives weighty pressure in the larynx, which later on leads to laryngeal ventricle dilatation. There external and internal type of Laryngocele and there is also a combination of both.
12065	Laryngomalacia is a medical condition wherein the larynx is extremely soft enough to cause breathing difficulties and also can initiate voice quality negative effects. Because the larynx is very soft, it tends to collapse during inhalation causing blockage to the airway passage. Laryngomalacia is literally referred to as soft larynx. The condition is most common to occur in infants; however, it can also occur in older patients essentially those who have neuromuscular problems that are possible to develop weakness of the throat muscles.
12066	Larynx cancer, or laryngeal cancer, is a grave condition in which the larynx is ruined due to growths and infections. This can lead to loss of one's voice.
12067	Lassa fever is an acute viral hemorrhagic fever named after the town in Lassa, Nigeria. The disease was first described in 1969 and is widespread in West African nations.
12068	Latent tuberculosis is a form of tuberculosis in which the actual disease is not actively felt by the patient. This form of tuberculosis is not contagious, but it is still caused by Mycobacterium tuberculosis. The disease is diagnosed be special tests such as Mantoux test, Heaf test and Tine test, and is treated by the same procedure as the typical tuberculosis.
12069	Lateral epicondylitis is commonly called tennis elbow where the outer part of the elbow becomes painful and tender. Based from the available scientific evidence, tennis elbow is an idiopathic, self-limiting, enthesopathy, of middle age. A lot of other hand and arm conditions, speculative etiologies such as overuse, tennis, etc. has limited scientific support and likely overstated.
12070	The protein in rubber can cause an allergic reaction in some people. The thin, stretchy latex rubber in gloves, condoms and balloons is high in protein. It causes a lot of allergic reactions than products made of hard rubber (like tires). And also, because some latex gloves are coated with cornstarch powder, the latex protein particles stick to the cornstarch and fly into the air when the gloves are taken off.
12071	Lattice dystrophy is a medical condition wherein abnormal fibers build up in a specific part of the eye's anterior stroma.
12072	The Laurence-Moon-Bardet-Biedl syndrome, sometimes called Bardet-Biedl synrome, is a rare genetic disorder characterized by mental retardation, hypogonadism, obesity, and renal failure.
12073	The brain and eyes work together to produce sight. If the brain favors one eye - often due to poor vision in the other eye - the weaker eye tends to wander inward or outward. Gradually, the brain may ignore the signals received from the weaker eye. This condition is called lazy eye (or also known as amblyopia).
12074	The LCHAD deficiency, or Long-chain 3-hydroxyacyl-coenzyme A dehydrogenase deficiency, is a disorder affecting the autosomal recesssive fatty acid oxidation.
12075	Lead poisoning is a result of exposure to lead in the environment. Even thou lead is no longer used in paints, gasoline, water pipes and other products, some lead-based products still exist and may pose a health hazard.
12076	Leber's hereditary optic neuropathy (LHON), also known as Leber optic atrophy, is a condition that consists of the degeneration of the retinal ganglion cells (RGC) that leads to permanent loss vision. This disease is common among males.
12077	Leber's congenital amaurosis is another name for Leber's hereditary optic neuropathy (LHON). it is an eye disease that consists of swelling and wastage of the retinal ganglion cells. This may result to permanent loss of eye vision.
12078	Leber's Disease, medically referred to as Leber's hereditary optic neuropathy (LHON), is a disease in which retinal ganglion cells degenerate causing loss of central vision. This disease occurs only on males.
12079	Leber's hereditary optic neuropathy (LHON) is a disease characterized by the deterioration of the retinal ganglion cells (RGC) that results to permanent loss of eye vision. This disease commonly affects males.
12080	Leber's optic neuropathy is an eye illness characterized by the swelling and eventual decay of the retinal ganglion cells. This results to permanent loss of eye vision.
12080	Leber's optic neuropathy is an eye illness characterized by the swelling and eventual decay of the retinal ganglion cells. This results to permanent loss of eye vision.
12081	Lecithin cholesterol acyltransferase deficiency is a kind of protein disorder affecting lipoprotein metabolism. It is the cause of cholesterol esters in the body. Lecithin cholesterol acyltransferase deficiency is found in two forms, the complete LCAT deficiency and the fish eye disease, wherein there is only a partial deficiency.
12082	Ledderhose disease, also known as plantar fibromatosis, is a non-malignant swelling and thickening of the fascia, or the feet's connective tissue. It is not painful, but the nodules growing along the foot's tendons stiffen the toes, which in turn disables the person's ability to walk properly.
12083	Left heart failure is a condition wherein the left side of the heart becomes unable to pump enough blood to the different parts of the body.
12084	A leg cramp is an involuntary, sustained tightening (contraction) of one or more of your muscles. It may result in intense pain and an inability to use the affected muscles. Leg cramps are contractions of the muscles, which is often in the back of the lower leg (calf). They usually occur just as you're falling asleep or just as you're waking up.
12085	Legionellosis is a contagious disease that causes respiratory illnesses such as pneumonia and pontiac fever. It was first described in 1976 when an outbreak occurred in a convention in Philadelphia, U.S.A. An average of 8,000 to 18,000 people in the Unites States acquire the disease each year.
12086	Leigh disease, or Subacute Necrotizing Encephalomyelopathy (SNEM), is a rare disorder affecting the central nervous system.
12087	Leiomyoma is a benign muscle neoplasm which may develop in any body organ but occurs mostly in the esophagus, small bowel and the uterus.
12088	Leiomyosarcoma is a rare type of cancer in which a malignant neoplasm develops in the involuntary muscles. Leiomyosarcoma is commonly detected in gastrointestinal organs such as the small intestine, retroperitoneum and the stomach.
12089	Leishmaniasis is a kind of disease brought about by protozoan parasites under the genus Leishmania. It is formerly known as Orient Boils, Baghdad Boil, Dum-Dum fever or Leichmaniosis.
12090	Lemierre's syndrome is a rare bacterial disease that usually targets young adults. It brings about an inflammation of the internal jugular vein. A blood clot also develops in the said area during the onset of the disease. It was first described by Andre Lemierre in 1936, and the disease has produced about 160 cases for the past 100 years.
12091	The Lennox-Gastaut syndrome or LGS is a kind of epilepsy that usually occurs in children two to six years of age. It is oftentimes coupled with behavior problems and eventual mental retardation.
12092	A type of color-containing (pigmented) lesion not caused by sun exposure, which looks like the freckle-like condition (lentigo) cause by sun exposure (solar lentigo) is called lentigo simplex. It can occur anywhere on the body, including areas that are not exposed to sunlight. Lentigo simplex can also occur as a single lesion even if multiple lentigos are associated with several inherited syndromes, where single lesions often develop on the lips or on the gums and may be caused by some forms of ultraviolet light therapy, therefore, the lesion may be seen as identical to those caused by exposure to sunlight.
12093	A dark lesion caused by natural or artificial ultraviolet (UV) lights is called a solar lentigo (plural, solar lentigines), also known as sun-induced freckle or senile lentigo. These lentigins may be single or multiple. Indicating excessive sun exposure, a risk factor for the development of skin cancer, solar lentigines are benign and are different from a simple lentigo (lentigo simplex) because it is caused by exposure to UV light.
12094	Leprechaunism is a rare medical disorder that exhibits elf-like features on an affected individual. Also called the Donohue syndrome, persons who suffer from Leprechaunism display distorted facial attributes such as protruberant ears, flaring nostrils and thick lips. Other physical features show enlarged reproductive organs and stunted growth.
12095	Leprosy is a chronic contagious skin disease that attack the peripheral nerves and mucosa of the respiratory tract. It also develops skin lesions in various parts of the body. When left untreated, the disease may cause irreverisible damages to the eyes, nerves and skin.
12096	Leptospirosis is a bacterial disease that results to the enlargement of the spleen, nephritis and jaundice.
12097	The Lesch-Nyhan syndrome is a rare hereditary disorder which is transmitted by the mother to her male offspring. Patients with the disease suffer from sever mental and physical disabilities as well as self-mutilating behaviors all throughout life.
12098	The Letterer-Siwe disease is a rare condition where histiocytes spread all over the body. This disease commonlt affects children below two-years of age.
12099	Leucinosis, or sometimes known as the Maple syrup urine disease (MSUD), is an autosomal recessive metabolic disorder that affects branched-chain amino acids.
12100	Leukemia is a type of cancer affecting the blood or bone marrow. It induces an abnormal production of white blood cells which in hinders the proper functioning of red blood cells.
12101	Leukemia, B-Cell, chronic, is a cancer of the white blood cells. It attacks a particular lymphocyte called B cell and thrives on the lymph nodes. When the B cell is damaged, it can no longer fight infections and kills other healthy blood cells in the process.
12102	Myeloid leukemia is a kind of leukemia that affects the bone marrow tissue. It has two distinct types, the acute and chronic myelogenous leukemia. Acute myeloid leukemia is characterized by the overpopulation of white blood cells in the bone marrow and get in the way of production of the normal blood cells. Chronic myeloid leukemia meanwhile is a stem cell disorder linked with chromosomal translocations.
12103	Chronic T-Cell Leukemia, also referred to as T-cell-prolymphocytic leukemia (T-PLL), is a post-thymic T-cell malignancy primarily inflicting adults aged 30 and above. This is a severe form of T-cell leukemia with aggressive behavior, predilection for blood, bone marrow, lymph nodes, liver, spleen, and skin involvement. Chronic T-Cell Leukemia is a rare disease with distinct clinical features following an aggressive clinical course. Within the post-thymic T-cell dysfunctions that develop as a result of leukemia, T-PLL is seen in about a third of documented cases.
12104	Leukocyte-adhesion deficiency syndrome is an autosomal recessive disorder that causes recurrent infections in the different parts of the body. It has two distinct genotypes known as type I and type II. Type II is known to create fewer infections but greater delay in developmental.
12105	Leukodystrophy is a collection of disorders that cause a progressive death of the brain's white matter.
12106	Globoid cell leukodystrophy, or Krabbe disease, is a rare, fatal degenerative disease that destroys the myelin content of the nervous system.
12107	Metachromatic leukodystrophy is a kind of leukodystrophy that destructs the development of myelin, the fatty white matter that protects the nerve fibers in the the central and peripheral nervous system.
12108	Leukomalacia is a disease that causes the death of white matter in the cerebral ventricles of the brain. It can cause severe damages to fetuses and newborn babies. Premature infants face the highest risks of the said disorder.
12109	Leukoplakia is a disease characterized by white patches on the mucous membranes in the different areas of the oral cavity.
12110	The Levator syndrome is a series of episodic rectal discomfort.
12111	Lewy body dementia is characterized as a gradually progressive disorder that primarily affects the brain. This comes with the loss of reason, memory as well as the ability to think. In most cases, Lewy body dementia shares the many characteristics of Parkinson's and Alzheimer's.
12112	Lewy body dementia shares characteristics with both Alzheimer's disease and Parkinson's disease. It can also cause distinctive physical signs typical of Parkinson's rigid muscles, slowed movement and tremors. Lewy body dementia may also cause hallucinations.
12113	LGCR, or the Langier-Giedion Chromosome Region, is a rare genetic defect caused by a deletion in a certain chromosome material. This problem occurs when a part of the chromosome 8's long arm has missing genes, causing poor growth and development.
12114	The Li-Fraumeni syndrome is an autosomal dominant disorder. It develops a tumor that hinders normal cell growth. It can also take form in several types of cancers and attack persons at a very young age.
12115	Lice are tiny, wingless, parasitic insects that feed on the blood. Lice are easily spread - particularly by schoolchildren - through close personal contact and by sharing belongings. Head lice are those that develop on the scalp. They're easiest to see at the nape of the neck and over the ears.
12116	Lichen nitidus is a very uncommon, noncancerous skin condition. It is made up of tiny, skin-colored bumps (papules) that often appear in clusters on the surface of the skin, especially on the arms and legs. The cause of lichen nitidus is not known.
12117	Lichen planus is an inflammatory illness affecting the skin and oral mucosa.
12118	Oral lichen planus is an inflammatory condition involving the lining of the mouth. It occurs most frequently on the inside of the cheeks, but can affect the gums, tongue, lips and other parts of the mouth. Sometimes, oral lichen planus involves the throat or the esophagus.
12119	Lichen sclerosis is a skin disorder that can affect men, women, or children, but is most common in women. It typically occurs on the vulva (the outer genitalia or sex organ) in women, but sometimes develops on the head of the penis in men. Occasionally, lichen sclerosus ican be seen on other parts of the body, especially the upper body, breasts, and upper arms.
12120	Lichen simplex chronicus, or neurodermatitis, is a stubborn skin condition that can cause the affected skin to become thick and leathery.
12121	Lichen spinulosus is a skin disorder wherein follicular keratotic papules grow in patches. This disease is a rare variant of keratosis pilaris.
12122	Liddle syndrome is an autosomal dominant genetic disorder that causes problems with potassium deficiency and sodium resorption from the renal tubule. Hypertension tends to develop at infant stages because of this disease.
12123	Ligament Sprains occur when ligaments (the tissues that hold bones together) are stretched or torn all of a sudden. Most sprains occur around joints such as the ankles, knees, or fingers.
12124	Limb-girdle muscular dystrophy is an autosomal muscular dystrophy that is characterized by a collection of rare muscle disorders.
12125	Lip cancer pertains to any type of carcinoma affecting the lip. Lip cancer is considered as a major form of oral cancer and is often characterized by visible ulcers that won't heal over time.
12126	Lipodystrophy is a condition where abnormalities in the body's adipose tissue begin to develop.
12127	Lipoid congenital adrenal hyperplasia is a kind of CAH brought about by defects during the first stages of adrenal cortisol synthesis. The disease commonly affects the adrenal glands and result to impaired development of sex characteristics.
12128	A lipoma is a slow-growing, fatty tumor situated between the skin and the underlying muscle layer.
12129	Liposarcoma is a malignant tumor that develops in fat cells inside the thigh or retroperitoneum. It is usually a cluster of large tumors that thrive in different parts of the thigh.
12130	Lissencephaly is brain development disorder in which the brain lacks its normal folds or convultions. It is a kind of cephalic disorder.
12131	Literally meaning "smooth brain", lissencephaly is a rare brain abnormality characterized by a lack of normal convolutions (or folds) in the brain. In lissencephaly syndrome type 1, the cerebral cortex is not normally developed, and the gyri are malformed.
12132	Listeria infection, also referred to as listeriosis, is a relatively rare bacterial infection that results from Listeria monocytogenes, a type of gram-positive motile bacterium. Listeria infection commonly affects newborn infants, elderly patients, and individuals with immuno deficiencies.
12133	Listeriosis is a bacterial disease caused by the strain Listeria monocytogenes. It is a rare infection found in newborn babies and the elderly.
12134	Kidney stones (also called renal lithiasis) are small, hard deposits of mineral and acid salts on the inner surfaces of the kidneys.
12135	Liticaphobia is described as the fear of lawsuits.
12136	Liver abscess pertains to a condition characterized by the presence of pus or abscess in the liver.
12137	Primary liver cancer begins in the cells of the liver itself. Although a lot of cancers are declining in the United States, new cases of primary liver cancer are increasing.
12138	Liver cirrhosis is disease characterized by the replacement of the liver tissue with fribrous scar tissue and regenerative lumps that lead to loss of liver functions.
12139	Liver neoplasms are non-endemic, malignant cancers in the liver that spread in the other body organs such as he colon.
12140	Also known as liver spots and solar lentigines, age spots are flat, gray, brown or black spots. They differ in size and usually appear on the face, hands, shoulders and arms - areas most exposed to the sun.
12141	Lobster hand is a rare congenital malformation of the hand wherein the middle finger is missing, and that the hand is cleft-shaped. It makes the hands appear like lobster claws.
12142	Locked-In syndrome is a medical condition where a patient is awake and conscious, but is unable to move any part of his body due to paralysis all almost all voluntary muscles.
12143	Lockjaw, also known as tetanus, is a serious bacterial disease that leads to stiffness of the jaw muscles and other muscles. It can cause severe muscle spasms, make breathing difficult and, ultimately, threaten one's life.
12144	Locomotor ataxia is a kind of paralysis that causes muscle degeneration due to the damages to the spinal cord. This paralysis is a severe effect of syphilis, as well as a deprivation of essential nutrients.
12145	Loeys-Dietz syndrome is an autosomal dominant disorder similar to the Marfan syndrome. It was first discovered by Harry Dietz and Bart Loeys.
12146	Loiasis is a disease infecting the eyes and skin. It is caused by the loa lola filaria or nematode worm and is transmitted through horsefly bites. The disease results to red swellings which become itchy after a while.
12147	Loin pain hematuria syndrome is a condition where unilateral or bilateral flank pain occurs as well as amounts of blood flow in the urine for no apparent reason.
12148	The Long QT syndrome is a medical heart condition where the cardiac ventricles become repolarized for longer periods of time. This condition may lead to sudden fainting as well as sudden death due to the overexcited ventricles.
12149	Long QT syndrome type 1 is the most common type of Long QT syndrome, wherein the LQT1 gene is isolated from the chromosome 11p15.5. This mutation can be an autosomal dominant as well as recessive disroder which may lead to consistent synopses as well as sudden death.
12150	It is the second most common gene in the long QT syndrome, and it involves mutations in chromosome 7. The Long QT syndrome type 2 leads to the blockage of cardiac action potential to potassium channels. This syndrome is brought about by overdose to drugs such as erythromycin, ketoconazole and terfenadine.
12151	Long QT syndrome type 3 deals with the alpha subunit of the gene that encodes Na+ ion channel, located at chromosome 1p21-24. These mutations can lead to Brugada syndrome, dilated cardiomyopathy and Cardiac Conduction disease.
12152	Lordosis pertains to a type of spinal deformity characterized by an increased curvature of the spine. Typically, in patients with lordosis, the spine curves forward in the lower ba
12153	Lou Gehrig's Disease, also called Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis or ALS, is a progressive and often fatal neurodegenerative disorder characterized by motor neuron degeneration. Motor neurons are nerve cells in the central nervous system that are primarily responsible for voluntary muscle movement. When these neurons degenerate, the resulting disease is known as Lou Gehrig's.
12154	Louis-Bar syndrome, also referred to as Ataxia-telangiectasia (AT) or Boder-Sedgwick syndrome, is an immunodeficiency disorder associated with a defect in T-cells. It occurs in approximately 1 in 40,000 to 1 in 300,000 births.
12155	It is described as a viral infection that can affect a number of species but it most significant in sheep. The tick-borne disease can be mild or severe that can cause serious neurological symptoms and even death.
12156	Low blood sugar, or hypoglycemia, is a condition caused by extremely low sugar levels in the blood. This is a common condition for patients with diabetes.
12157	Low sex drive in women, also known as hypoactive sexual desire disorder, is when one has a persistent or recurrent lack of interest in sex that causes her personal distress.
12158	Also called oculocrebrorenal syndrome, the Lowe syndrome is an X-linked recessive defect displayed by cataracts, mental retardation, aminoaciduria, ammonia production and vitamin-D resisitant rickets.
12159	Lower back pain is a common condition in which the lumbar vertebrae swells and causes pain. It has three types of classifications, acute, subacute and chronic.
12160	LSA or lichen sclerosus et atrophicus is a disease with no known pathogenesis that severely impacts the afflicted patient's quality of life. Approximately 14 individuals per 100,000 people are affected by LSA per year. Females have a predilection for the disease. Fifteen percent of cases involved patients 10 to 30 years old.
12161	LÂ·es CongÎ˜nita, more popularly known as Syphilis, is a sexually transmitted disease caused by a gram-negative bacterium called Treponema pallidum spirochete. Syphilis may not necessarily be contracted through sexual contact. Cases have been documented wherein the infection is passed from mother to offspring in the utero.
12162	Luiphobia is, quite simply, an acute fear of syphilis. Syphilis, a curable sexually transmitted disease caused by a spirochaete bacterium, has many names. Throughout history, this infectious disease has been known alternatively as "the Pox", "freedom disease", "syph", and "lues". Hence, the term "luiphobia", which literally means fear of the lues.
12163	Lumbago is a general term pertaining to persistent pain affecting the small of the back, or more specifically, the lumbar region.
12164	Lung abscess pertains to an acute lung infection characterized by a localized accumulation of pus, inflammation, and tissue damage.
12165	Lung cancer is an affliction characterized by uncontrolled cell growth in the tissues of the lung, which may ultimately lead to metastasis, invasion of adjacent tissues, and even infiltration in other parts of the body.
12166	In medicine (pulmonology), a pneumothorax, or collapsed lung, is a potential medical emergency caused by accumulation of air or gas in the pleural cavity, arising as a result of disease or injury, or spontaneously.
12167	Lung neoplasm is a condition in which the lung experiences excessive growth of new abnormal tissue. These tissues grow by cellular division and spread abnormally fast, continuing to grow long after the stimuli that initiated it has ceased. The growth may either be benign or malignant.
12168	Lupus is a chronic inflammatory disease that occurs when your body's immune system attacks your own tissues and organs. Inflammation caused by lupus may affect many different body systems, including your joints, skin, kidneys, blood cells, heart and lungs.
12169	Lupus anticoagulant (LA) is a medical condition in which antibodies link with phospholipids and proteins causing clotting abnormalities. The actual term for this condition is lupus erythematosus, and it can increase the risk for thrombosis.
12170	Systemic lupus erythematosus, simply called lupus, is an autoimmune disease that when untreated, can prove to be fatal. With lupus, as with autoimmune disorders in general, the patient's immune system attacks healthy cells and tissue, thus resulting in inflammation or damage of the tissues. Although it often targets the heart, joints, skin, blood vessels, lungs, liver, nervous system, and kidneys, lupus can actually affect any part of the human body. Lupus progresses unpredictably, with episodes of illness called flares that alternate with remission.
12171	Lupus nephritis is a condition characterized by an inflammation of the kidney arising from an autoimmune disease known as systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE).
12172	Lutz-Lewandowsky epidermodysplasia verruciformis, more commonly known simply as epidermodysplasia verruciformis, is a rare lifelong skin condition wherein scaly macules and papules abnormally form on the hands and feet. This disease initially develops in childhood and last throughout adulthood.
12173	Lyell's Syndrome, also referred to as Toxic Epidermal Necrolysis (TEN), is a potentially fatal dermatological disorder typically resulting from an adverse reaction to medications. This condition is life-threatening, characterized by the detachment of the epidermis (the top layer of the skin) from the dermis (the lower layers of the skin) in the entire body.
12174	Lygophobia is an irrational fear of the dark, common among children but also observed in adults in varying degrees. Lygophobia is from the word "lyge", meaning twilight, and "phobia", meaning fear. Other terms synonymous to this condition are nyctophobia (meaning fear of night) and scotophobia (meaning fear of darkness).
12175	Also called borreliosis, lyme disease is an infectious disease that results from an invasion of a bacteria from the genus Borrelia. The point of infection is usually the bite of a contaminated black-legged or deer tick. Other carriers, including other kinds of ticks, may also pass the affliction to humans. In the US, lyme disease is primarily caused by borrelia burgdorferi, whereas Borrelia afzelii and Borrelia garinii are the predominant causes in Europe.
12176	Lymphadenitis is the inflammation of a lymph node in the body. It is often a complication of a bacterial infection of a wound, although it can also be brought about by viruses or other disease agents.
12177	Lymphadenopathy is a term meaning "disease of the lymph nodes." Almost synonymously are used with "swollen/enlarged lymph nodes". When the infection of the lymph nodes themselves, it is called lymphadenitis, but when the infection is of the lymph channels, it is called lymphangitis.
12178	Lymphangiectasia is an intestinal disease commonly afflicting dogs, but also affecting humans in rare cases. Distinct characteristic of lymphangiectasia include chronic diarrhea and loss of proteins such as globulin and serum albumin.
12179	Lymphangioleiomyomatosis, LMA for brevity, is a rare lung disorder in which abnormal smooth muscle cells grow rapidly in lung and lymph tissue
12180	Lymphangiomas are a rare type of angioma or benign tumors that typically appear at birth or early in childhood.
12181	Lymphatic filariasis is a parasitic and infectious tropical disease. It is endemic in tropical areas of the world, where it was said that up to 54% of the population have microfilariae in their blood (Aupali T, Ismid IS, Wibowo H, et al. (2006). "Estimation of the prevalence of lymphatic filariasis by a pool screen PCR assay using blood spots collected on filter paper". Tran R Soc Trop Med Hyg 100 (8): 753-9).
12182	Lymphedema otherwise known as lymphatic obstruction is a condition where there is retention of localized fluid caused by an unhealthy lymphatic system. Its primary danger to a person is the constant risk of developing an uncontrolled infection in the affected limb.
12183	Lymphedema choriomeningitis - or, more accurately, lymphocytic choriomeningitis - pertains to an infectious disease caused by a rodent-borne virus. Alternative names for this disorder are: lymphocytic meningoencephalitis, benign lymphocytic meningitis, la Maladie d'Armstrong, or serous lymphocytic meningitis.
12184	Lymphedema distichiasis an inherited disorder in which an individual has extra eyelashes or a "double row of eye lashes," and swelling of arms and legs.
12185	Lymphoblastic lymphoma is a rare medical condition that is considered as an uncommon form of aggressive Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma or NHL.
12186	Lymphocytic colitis a rare condition characterized by chronic non-bloody watery diarrhea. It is a subtype of miscroscopic colitis.
12187	It is also referred to as lymphopathia venereal which is a tropical bubo, climatic bubo, strumous bubo, poradenitis inguinales, Durand-Nicolas-Favre disease and lymphogranuloma inguinale and it is also a sexually transmitted disease.
12187	Lymphogranuloma venereum (or LGV) is a sexually transmitted disease primarily affecting the lymphatics and caused by certain invasive strains of Chlamydia trachomatis. This disease is also known by many other names, including: climatic bubo, tropical bubo, strumous bubo, poradenitis inguinales, lymphopathia venerea, Durand-Nicolas-Favre disease, and lymphogranuloma inguinale.
12188	Lymphogranuloma venereum (LGV), which is an uncommon sexually transmitted disease and is characterized by its spreading though having unprotected vaginal, oral or anal sex is caused by certain types of the bacteria called Chlamydia trachomatis. This disease causes swollen and painful lymph nodes, which can then break into large ulcers. As it develops, lymphogranuloma venereum goes through 3 distinct stages where the first 2 stages may be minor and you might not even be aware of any symptoms until you reach stage 3, called genitoanorectal syndrome.
12189	Lymphomas are part of the broad group of diseases called hematological neoplasms. It is a type of cancer that originates in a type of white blood cell in the vertebrate immune system that is commonly known as the lymphocytes.
12190	Large cell lymphoma is a type of lymphoma in which one or more types of malignant large lymphocytes are formed. Such large lymphocytes are large cleaved or noncleaved follicular center cells with a diffuse pattern.
12191	Large cell, immunoblastic lymphoma is a type of non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, which is highly malignant. It is characterized by large lymphoblasts that have a diffuse pattern of infiltration.
12192	Diffuse small cleaved cell lymphoma is a follicular center cell lymphoma without a follicular pattern. The malignancy of this type of lymphoma is of intermediate grade.
12193	Follicular lymphoma of small-cleaved-cell is a type of lymphoma, which is immunologically homogeneous: Ig+ B1+ B2+ CALLA+ Ia+.
12194	Lymphomas are cancers that affect the lymph nodes. They destroy the lymph vessels that filter out the bacteria from entering the body organs. Childhood lymphomas meanwhile show abnormalities in the lymph system in which the white blood cells rapidly multiply and cause ruptures in the lymph nodes. There are two kinds of childhood lymphomas: Hodgkin's disease and Non-Hodgkin's lymphoma. Both lymphomas can be very fatal.
12195	It is a an angiocentric and angiodestructive lymphoreticular proliferative disorder which commonly affects the lungs, skin and the central nervous system.
12196	Lymphosarcoma is a type of lymphoma that is also commonly known as Non-Hodgkins lymphoma (Neighbors,M. and Tannehill-Jones,R. 2000 Human Diseases, pp.115-115). It is a malignant lympohoma in which neoplastic cells diffusely infiltrate the entire lymph node without any pattern.
12197	Lynch syndrome is a rare inherited condition that increases the risk of colon cancer and other cancers.
12198	Lysinuric protein intolerance, also known as hyberdibasic aminoaciduria type 2 or familial protein intolerance, is a autosomal recessive disorder of amino acid transport.
12199	Lysosomal alpha-D mannosidase deficiency is an autosomal recessive metabolic disorder that often causes mental and physical deterioration.
12200	Lysosomal disorder is among the group of forty human genetic disorders that results from malfunction of the lysosomal (Winchester B, Vellodi A, Young E (2000). "The molecular basis of lysosomal storage diseases and their treatment". Biochem. Soc. Trans. 28 (2): 150-4).
12201	Lyssavirus is a rabies-like virus of which bats are natural reservoirs. When transmitted to humans, lyssavirus can cause a number of potentially life-threatening conditions.
12202	Mac Ardle Disease, otherwise known as Glycogen Storage Disease Type V (GSD-V) is a kind of metabolic disorder due to the glycogen storage. It is the most common of the various type of GSD. (Wolfe, Gil I. et al. "McArdle's disease presenting with asymmetric, late-onset arm weakness." Muscle & Nerve, 2000).
12203	Machado-Joseph Disease pertains to a rare type of hereditary spinocerebellar ataxia characterized by ophthalmoplegia, mixed sensory and cerebellar ataxia, and general lack of muscle control. It is also alternatively known as Spinocerebellar ataxia type 3.
12204	Macroglobulinemia otherwise known as WaldenstrÃ·m Macroglobulinemia, is a cancer involving lymphocytes. It is characterized by increased levels of macroglobulins in the circulating blood and diffuse of infiltration of bone marrow and produces symptoms of hyperviscosity.
12205	Macroglossia dominant refers to the severe enlargement or hypertrophy of the tongue which cause functional difficulties in speaking, eating, and sleeping. It is most common in primary and myeloma-related amyloidosis, which refers to the accumulation of insoluble proteins in tissues that impedes its normal functioning (Merck Manual 17th Ed.)
12206	Degeneration is a medical condition that is mostly found in elderly adults wherein the center of the lining of the eye known as the macula area of the retina suffers thinning atrophy and to certain extent, bleeding of the eye. It one of the leading cause of central vision loss or blindness for those ages over fifty (de Jong PT (2006). "Age-related macular degeneration". N Engl J Med. 355 (14): 1474 - 1485).
12207	Macular degeneration juvenile is a medical condition which affects the center lining of the eye known as the Macula area of the retina of younger individuals. Its other term and example includes the Best's Disease, Doyne's honeycomb retinal dystrophy, Sorsby's Disease and Stargardt's Disease. It often leads to blindness (Roberts, DL (Sep 2006). "The First Year--Age Related Macular Degeneration". (Marlowe & Company).
12208	Age-related Macular Degeneration is a medical condition that is mostly found in elderly adults wherein the center of the lining of the eye known as the macula area of the retina suffers thinning atrophy and to certain extent, bleeding of the eye. It one of the leading cause of central vision loss or blindness for those ages over fifty (de Jong PT (2006). "Age-related macular degeneration". N Engl J Med. 355 (14): 1474 - 1485).
12209	Polymorphic macular degeneration is a medical condition which is mostly found in adults due to polymorphism. It is the leading cause of central vision loss (blindness) in the United States today for those over the age of fifty years (de Jong PT (2006). "Age-related macular degeneration". N Engl J Med. 355 (14): 1474 - 1485).
12210	Macular hole is a medical condition affecting the center of the retina in which the vitreous gel inside the eye weakens and eventually separates from the retina, leading to macular traction and causing a hole to form.
12211	Mad Cow Disease, otherwise known as Bovine Spongiform Encephalopathy (BSE) is a neurodegenerative diseases in cattle that cause a spongy degeneration in the brain and in the spinal cord.
12212	Maffucci syndrome, named after Angelo Maffucci, is usually presented by multiple enchondromas associated with multiple cavernous soft tissue hemangiomas.
12213	Magnesium deficiency pertains to a depletion or absolute absence of magnesium in the body, usually as a consequence of a number of conditions. Magnesium is essential in the body's metabolic function and its absence can cause serious repercussions.
12214	Mal de barquement Syndrome or MdDs or Disembarkment syndrome is a rare condition which usually occur after a sustained motion even like cruise or aircraft flight. The phrase means "sickness of disembarkation".
12215	Malabsorption is a condition characterized by impaired absorption of nutrients from the GI tract, affecting the small intestine's ability to adequately absorb nutrients that are essential for the normal functioning of the body.
12216	It is a rare inflammatory condition manifested by a papule, plaque or ulceration that affects the genitourinary tract. It is described by the presence of histiocytes with basophilic inclusions called Michaelis-Gutmann bodies.
12217	Malaria is a parasitic disease caused by mosquito bites, known as Anopheles Mosquitoes. It is one of the most common vector-borne infectious diseases in most tropical and sub-tropical regions in Asia, Africa, and some parts of Americas.
12218	Breast cancer is not just a woman's disease. Men also have breast tissue that could undergo cancerous changes. While women are about 100 times more likely to get breast cancer, any man can still develop breast cancer. Male breast cancer is common between the ages of 60 and 70.
12219	Male hypogonadism is a condition in which the body doesn't give out enough of the sex hormone testosterone.
12220	Male menopause is a phase where men experience a decline of androgen production due to aging. The production of testosterone hormones do not stop, however, unlike the female ovaries.
12221	17-beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase deficiency-3 is a rare disorder of sexual development which affects the biosynthesis of testosterone which can produce male pseudohermaproditism (intersexuality) of genetically male infants and children .This autosomal recessive medical condition can bring about great effects in the primary and/or secondary sex attributes among male and female individuals.
12222	Malignant fibrous histiocytoma is a type of malignant cancer that develops in fibrous support tissue or bone. The usual location of tumors is found in extremities; however it can possibly appear in any body part. It is the most common type of soft tissue cancer that appears in later adult life, usually between the ages of 50-70.
12223	Malignant hyperthermia is a rare life-threatening condition. It is triggered by exposure to most drugs used in general anesthesia. Vulnerability to malignant hyperthermia is most of the time inherited as an autosomal dominant disorder. It is genetically associated with Central Core Disease, which usually presents malignant hyperthermia manifestations and myopathy, described as a muscle suffering disorder.
12224	Mallory-Weiss syndrome is a laceration in the lining of the gastro-esophageal junction (stomach-esophagus), usually due to severe coughing or vomiting.
12225	Malonic aciduria is a rare genetic condition marked by a deficiency of the enzyme Malonyl-CoA decarboxylase bringing about impairment in the body's ability to convert fatty acids into energy, which can be used by muscles like muscles in the heart. Because of this occurrence, fatty acids tend to accumulate in the body since they are not metabolized. The deficiency in Malonyl-CoA decarboxylase interrupts the normal balance of fatty acid breakdown and formation. This condition is also known as Malonyl-CoA decarboxylase deficiency.
12226	Malonyl-CoA decarboxylase deficiency also known as Malonic aciduria is a metabolic disorder disrupting the Malonyl-Coa decarboxylase from breaking down Malonyl-CoA enzyme into Acetyl-CoA and carbon dioxide.
12227	Malouf syndrome is a very rare syndrome primarily characterized by a heart disease in addition to abnormal ovaries. This congenital disorder is also known as congestive cardiomyopathy-hypergonadotropic hypogonadism syndrome. Malouf syndrome is derived from the name of Jean Malouf, who is a famous sideshow performer during the 19th century; she was born in Montreal.
12228	Malta fever, also known as undulant fever or brucellosis, is a contagious disease that affects the central nervous system and can lead to painful joints as well as miscarriage.
12229	Malveolar echinococcosis is a rare medical condition that exhibits a tumor-like growth on the liver and can induce potential serious health complications. Red foxes have been identified to be the primary hosts of this parasite that can be passed on to human beings. Up until today, there have no definitive study with regard to this condition as it is known to be a very rare occurrence.
12230	Mammary duct ectasia happens when a milk duct beneath the nipple becomes dilated and filled with fluid. The milk duct can then become congested or clogged with a thick, sticky substance.
12231	Manic depression, bipolar covers a wide range of mood disorders. It is signified by the presence of one or more abnormally elevated mood episodes. This occurrence is clinically termed as mania, mostly associated with bipolar disorders. It is also referred as "manic-depressive disorder" but now changes into bipolar affective disorder, which involves episodes of alternating manic-depressive symptoms and good overly excited thoughts. There are 3 subdivisions of this disorder: bipolar I & II and cyclothymia depending on the type and gravity of the mood and thought episodes encounters.
12232	Mannosidosis (alpha-mannosidosis) is a rare inherited metabolic disorder characterized by a deficiency of the alpha mannosidosase. This occurrence results in the accumulation of certain chemicals in the body leading later on to mental and physical deterioration. The enzyme alpha-mannosidosase aids in the breakdown of complex sugars derived from glycoprotein in the organelles that contain digestive enzymes (lysosomes).
12233	Mansonelliasis, also known as Mansonellosis is the condition of infection by the nematode or worm-like parasite known as Mansonella. Transmission commonly occurs through the bite of a midge. These worms live in the abdominal cavity
12234	Mantle cell lymphoma is one of the rarer types of the non-Hodgkin's lymphomas. The lymphoma can spread to other parts of the body including the liver, bone marrow or spleen. This occurrence is prevalent to males rather than females, with the ratio of 4:1.
12235	Map-dot-fingerprint dystrophy pertains to a condition characterized by an abnormal appearance of the eye cornea, usually with map-like patches or gray outlines resembling continents on a map. This condition is also known as epithelial basement membrane dystrophy.
12236	Maple syrup urine disease also called branched-chain ketoaciduria, is an autosomal recessive metabolic disorder affecting branched-chain amino acids. This is one type of organic acidemia. Maple syrup urine disease is a metabolism disorder passed down through families in which the body cannot break down certain parts of proteins.
12237	Marburg fever is a rare and severe type of hemorrhagic fever affecting both human and non-human primates. It is a serious virus related to Ebola. The disease is transmitted through bodily fluids like saliva, blood, excrements (waste products of metabolism), and vomit.
12238	Marchiafava-Bignami disease is also known as Marchiafava's disease and Marchiafava's syndrome. It is a progressive neurological disorder oftentimes associated with alcohol abuse and/or nutritional disorder.
12239	Marcus Gunn phenomenon is a congenital condition where the eyelids of an infant droop but rise up when the mouth is opened. It is an autosomal dominant condition also known as Marcus Gunn Jaw Winking or Trigemino-oculomotor Synkineses. This condition is named after Marcus Gunn characterized by rhythmic upward jerking of the upper eyelid of an infant.
12240	Marek's disease is an extremely contagious viral neoplastic disease in chickens that is characterized especially by proliferation of lymphoid cells and is caused by a herpes virus having several serotypes. It usually affects both commercial and backyard poultry that often results to severe production loss or death. Marek's disease causes multiple nerve changes and aids in the development of tumors in major internal organs.
12241	Marfan syndrome is a connective tissue disorder affecting many structures like skeleton, lungs, eyes, blood vessels and heart since connective tissue is found in all parts of the body. It is an inheritable condition in an autosomal dominant genetic pattern.
12242	Marinesco-Sjogren syndrome is a rare autosomal recessive disorder, which causes the destruction of the exocrine glands that is responsible for tear and saliva production.
12243	Maroteaux-Lamy syndrome is a rare disorder of mucopolysaccharide metabolism due to a deficiency of the enzyme aryl sulphatase B, the enzyme necessary to break down the complex sugar glycosaminoglycan (formerly referred to as mucopolysaccharide). This complex sugar needs to be recycled and replayed to carry out its normal function of providing structure to skin, bones, organs, and airways. It belongs to a group of uncommon inherited diseases categorized as lysosomal storage disorders. Other names for Maroteaux-Lamy syndrome are mucolopolysaccharidosis VI and MPS VI.
12244	Marshall syndrome is a rare genetic disorder that is usually inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern. The condition can occur in both male and female.
12245	Marshall-Smith syndrome is a rare genetic disorder involving specific facial features, remarkable accelerated skeletal maturation, failure to grow and thrive, and breathing problems that are severe in nature.
12246	Martin Bell syndrome, also known as fragile syndrome X, is a mental defect that involves learning disabilities and behavioral problems.
12247	Masculinisation is a condition in which an affected female takes on a distinctly and progressively male appearance.
12248	Mast cell disease or mastocytosis is a group of rare disorders marked by the presence of too many mast cells in various organs and tissues such as the skin, spleen, liver, bone, and the gastrointestinal tract.
12249	Mastalgia is breast pain and is generally classified as either cyclical (linked with menstrual periods) or noncyclic.
12250	Mastitis is a disease commonly seen in women breastfeeding refers to that kind of infection of the tissue surrounding the breast area which thereby results into the breast's painful swelling usually accompanied by its redness and tenderness. Most often, person affected with this infection are mothers who are breastfeeding their infants inasmuch as it occurs within the first six weeks after giving birth. However, even if the mother is affected with Mastitis, she can still breastfeed her child but usually feels tired and restless thereafter.`
12251	Mastocytosis is a disorder that results when too many mast cells, called mastocytes, and CD34+ mast cell precursors exist in the body. It has many types and may be experienced by children and adults.
12251	Mastocytosis is a group of unusual disorder of both children and adults caused by the presence of too many mast cells (mastocytes) and CD34+ mast cell precursors in a person's body.
12252	By definition, Mastoiditis is an infection of the mastoid process, which is that part of the temporal bone of the skull and is located behind the ear.
12253	MAT deficiency is used to describe two metabolic disorders, which are unrelated -- Beta-ketothiolase deficiency and Hypermethioninemia. Beta-ketothiolase deficiency prevents the body from properly processing the products of lipid breakdown, known as amino acid isoleucine. Hypermethioninemia is a condition of excessive unprocessed amino acid methionine in the blood.
12254	Maternal death pertains to the death of a woman during or shortly after pregnancy that arises from factors or circumstances related to pregnancy or childbirth. It is also referred to as obstetrical death or maternal mortality.
12255	Maturity onset diabetes of the young is a condition in which the body has defective insulin but does not include any forms of type 2 diabetes.
12256	By definition MacArdle's disease is also known as Glycogen storage disease type V and is a kind of metabolic disorder that is characterized by the body's inability to produce enough of the muscle isoform called phosphorylase. Relatively recent, it was first identified in 1951 by the English physician whose name it now bears.
12257	McCune-Albright syndrome is also known as polyostotic fibrous dysplasia. It is a genetic condition with disorder of the bones, pigmentation of skin, and premature puberty with hormonal problems.
12258	2Measles, which is also known as, Rubeola is a viral disease that has had a long history with medical accounts of it going as far back as 600 B.C. It was first clinically described in an Arabic book which significantly distinguished it from small pox. Measles is one of the great childhood killers, claiming the lives of more then 200 million children and adults in the last 150 years. The development of a vaccine has made the effectively checked the disease.
12259	By definition Meckel syndrome is also known as Meckel-Gruber Syndrome, Gruber Syndrome, Dysencephalia Splanchnocystica and is an extremely rare and often lethal genetic disorder; it is so rare that estimates for rates of incidence is about .02 for every 10,000 births. The country of Finland has the most number of cases with the incidence as high as 1.1 per 10,000 births.
12260	Medial Tibial Syndrome, otherwise known as the Shin Splints, is an injury that is usually common to runners and athletes. It refers to the pain arising along the large bone in front of the lower leg or the Shinbone or the Tibia. It is usually a result of the over stress of the shinbone and the connective tissues that are usually present in the muscles of the bone.
12261	Mediastinal fibrosis is a highly uncommon but the most extremely severe and late complication of histoplasmosis. Majority of physicians believe that mediastinal fibrosis is brought about by the abnormal immunologic response of the patient to antigens that are typically released by soil-based fungus called histoplasma capsulatum.
12262	Mediterranean anemia is a type of an inherited blood disorder that is characterized by reduced levels of hemoglobin and few red blood cells in the body. Genetic defects are largely the cause of this disease. Mild conditions do not usually require any form of treatment. Although the sever form would require regular blood transfusions.
12263	By definition, Familial Mediterranean fever (FMF) is a hereditary inflammatory disorder that specifically afflicts a groups of patients who come from in and around the Mediterranean Sea- hence the name. The disorder is also very prominently present among Armenians, Sephardi Jews and people from Turkey and some Arab countries.
12264	By definition, this deficiency is a fatty acid oxidation disorder that is connected with inborn errors of metabolism errors that occur at birth The defect is found in the enzyme complex called medium-chain acyl dehydrogenase (MCAD) whose ability to function efficiently is reduced significantly. The disorder has also been known to cause (rarely) Sudden infant death syndrome or SIDS.
12265	By definition, medullary cystic disease is also known as nephronophthisis and is a genetic disorder of the kidneys which typically affects children.
12266	By definition, medulloblastoma is an extremely malignant primary brain tumor that comes from the cerebellum or posterior fossa of the human brain. It belongs to the family of tumors knows as cranial primitive neuroectodermal tumors or PNET.
12267	This is also known as Otospondylomegaepiphyseal dysplasia (OSMED) and is an autosomal recessive disorder that affects bone growth resulting in skeletal abnormalities and a host of other complications. severe hearing loss, and distinctive facial features. As the name suggests, the condition affects not only the skeletal structure, but also hearing.
12268	Megacolon otherwise known as the Hirschsprung's disease, is a disease that usually hits the large intestine or the colon causing bowel movement problems.
12269	Megalencephaly is a form of cephalic disease characterized by an abnormally large, heavy, and malfunctioning brain. This disorder is also known as macrencephaly.
12270	By definition, Megaloblastic anemia is a rare form of anemia classified as macrocytic that result when DNA synthesis is inhibited in the body's red blood cell production
12271	First described by Henri Meige 1904, this syndrome is now more commonly called oral facial dystonia.
12272	Melanoma is a form of skin cancer which develops in the cell producing melanin.
12273	Melanomas are tumors of melanocytes that are malignant and found basically on the skin but can also appear elsewhere in the body. While it is rarer compared to other skin cancers, it however causes the majority of deaths related to cancer; more frequent among Caucasian males, the WHO reports that over 48,000 deaths from melanoma occur globally every year.
12274	A non-cancerous (benign), dark spot found on the lips or inside the mouth is called oral melanotic macule. It also sometimes called a labial melanotic macule if found on the lip.
12275	Characterized in 1984, MELAS is the abbreviation for Mitochondrial myopathy, encephalopathy, lactic acidosis, stroke-like episodes, which belongs to the family of mitochondrial cytopathies which include MERRF, and Leber's Hereditary Optic Atrophy.
12276	A skin condition presenting as brown patches on the face of adults, where both sides of the face are usually affected is called melasma. The forehead, the cheeks, bridge of the nose and the upper lip are the most common sites of involvement for this condition.
12277	Its peculiar name is derived from the Dalmatian island of Melda because its founder was said to have been afflicted with the disease. Extremely rare, meleda disease is an inherited disorder of the skin characterized by thick, dry patches of skin which appear on the soles of both hands and feet (palmoplantar hyperkeratosis).
12278	This disease is defined as an infectious disease caused by the Gram-negative bacterium Burkholderia pseudomallei which is found in soil and in water. There are certain places where this bacterium is specially prevalent such as Thailand and Australia and that care must be given to those who might be traveling in parts of these areas where the diseases is prevalent.
12279	Melkersson-Rosenthal syndrome is an extremely rare neurological disorder that basically afflicts facial features
12280	Memory loss refers to the different processes to which one tends to forget his thoughts, whether uncontrollably or by intent. Among kinds of memory loss are amnesia, senility, and aphasia.
12281	Menarche is a medical term used in reference to a female's first menstrual period, or the first menstrual bleeding in women that signals her transition into puberty.
12282	MÎ˜nÎ˜trier disease which is also known as hyperplastic hypersecretory gastropathy, is named after the French physician Pierre EugÎ¦ne MÎ˜nÎ˜trier and is a disorder in which the gastric mucosal folds or rugae become enlarged.
12283	Meninges cancer pertains to a disorder characterized by a cancerous malignancy or carcinoma found in the brain's meninges, or that intricate system of membranes that envelops the central nervous system. If the tumor originates in the meninges, it is known as meningioma.
12284	Meningiomas are actually the most common benign tumors of the brain although there is a small number which can also be malignant. They come from the arachnoidal cap cells of the meninges and represent about 15% of all primary brain tumors.
12285	Meningitis is one of the more common diseases which result from the inflammation of the protective membranes that the central nervous system, known collectively of course as the meninges from where it gets its name.
12286	Meningitis is a severe bacterial infection that triggers the brain and spinal cord. It commonly affects children ages 6 to 12 months.
12287	By definition Meningococcemia occurs when there is the presence of Neisseria meningitidis (also known as meningococcus) which is a severe bacterical infection in the blood stream. Initially, the disease presents some difficulties in proper identification because it appears in different forms depending on the part of the body that it affects. It is possible that there can also be meningitis or septicaemia, or even a combination of both
12288	Posterior meningocele is a least common form of the condition known as spina bifida which is Latin for split spine. Spina bifida is a birth defect that affects the neural tube. What happens is that there is an incomplete closure of the embryonic neural tube which contributes to an unformed spinal cord. The vertebrae found at the open part of the spinal cord is not fully formed as well and remains unfused and exposed.
12289	Meningococcemia is a fatal and acute infection of the bloodstream. It often results to vasculitis, which is an inflammation of the blood vessels.
12290	By definition, Encephalocele is also sometimes known by the Latin name cranium bifidum and is a neural tube defect that is characterized by sac-like protrusions of the brain and the membranes that cover it. These sacs actually protrude outside through openings in the skull.
12291	Meningomyelocele is a condition in which protruded membranes cover the spine as well as some of the spinal cord through the vertebral column's defective bony encasement. The bony defect is referred to as spina bifida.
12292	Meniscus Tear is the condition whereby there is a forceful rotation of the knee which usually causes the tearing of the meniscus.
12293	Menkes disease is a disorder affecting the body's copper levels and characterized by sparse and coarse hair, growth and development problems, as well as deterioration of the nervous system. It is also alternatively known as Menkes kinky hair syndrome.
12294	Menopause literally means the permanent physiological, or natural, cessation of menstrual cycles, from the Greek roots 'meno' (month) and 'pausis' (a pause, a cessation). Menopause means the permanent end of the monthly female reproductive cycles, and in humans this is usually indicated by a permanent absence of monthly periods or menstruation.
12295	is an abnormally heavy and prolonged menstrual period at regular intervals. Causes could be due to abnormal blood clotting, disruption of normal hormonal regulation of periods or disorders of the endometrial lining of the uterus. Depending on the cause, it may be associated with abnormally painful periods (dysmenorrhea).
12296	Menstrual cramps often referred to as dysmenorrhea, is the pain in the lower abdomen experienced by women before and during their menstruation.
12297	Mental retardation is a term for the pattern of slow learning in childhood that affects basic motor and language and which progresses into below-normal intellectual capacity when the child reaches adulthood. The term has been described as being politically-incorrect and clinicians prefer using the term developmental disabilities.
12298	Meralgia parenthetica is a paresthesia that results from damage to one of the nerves coursing through the spine to the thigh region.
12299	Meralgia paresthetica (burning thigh pain) pertains to a condition defined by a tingling, numbing, and burning pain in the outer thigh.
12300	Merasmus is a disease characterized by progressive emaciation and general wasting as a consequence of a weakened disposition rather than any specific identifiable cause. It is generally considered to be a type of malnutrition. Merasmus may also be spelled Marasamus, Mirasmus or Marasumus. Sometimes, it is also referred to as Miasma.
12301	Mercury poisoning is also known as mercurialism, hydrargyria, Hunter-Russell syndrome, or acrodynia when the victims are children.
12302	Merkel cell cancer is a rare form of cancer characterized by a bluish-red or flesh-colored nodule on the skin, particularly on the face, head, or neck of affected patients. It is also known as neuroendocrine carcinoma of the skin, and typically occurs in the elderly.
12303	Mesenteric ischemia is a medical condition where inadequate blood supply inflames and injures the small intestine
12304	Mesenteric lymphadenitis is a condition whereby there is an unusual inflammation of the lymph nodes usually seen and located at the fold of the membranes which usually is responsible for attaching the colon and other like organs to the abdominal wall.
12305	By definition, mesothelioma is a form of cancer that is almost always likely caused by a prior exposure to asbestos; an exposure which causes malignant cells to develop in the mesothelium which is the protective lining that covers most of the body's internal organs. The most common site for these cancers to develop is the pleura, which is the outer lining of the lungs and of the chest cavity. Other places it could occur include the peritoneum or the lining of the abdominal cavity and even in the pericardium which is a a sac that surrounds the heart.
12306	This is a process that if unchecked can lead acidemia in which blood pH is very low (less because of the increased production of H+ by the body as well as the inability of the body to form bicarbonate in the kidney.
12307	Metabolic disorders have many types but they typically affect the production of energy in individual cells.
12308	Metabolic syndrome pertains to a group of conditions related to metabolism that commonly occur together, increasing the risk for stroke, diabetes, heart disease, and other health problems.
12309	Metabolic syndrome actually refers to a combination of several medical disorders which heighten the risk of developing cardiovascular disease and diabetes. Affecting a large demographic, its incidence and risk level increases with age with some current studies placing the American prevalence to be up to 25% of the population. Other terms are; metabolic syndrome X, syndrome X, insulin resistance syndrome and Reaven's syndrome
12310	Metachondromatosis is a disease that affects bone growth, often tubular bones but may also involve the vertebrae. The disease can lead to multiple enchondromas and osteochondromas.
12311	Metachromatic leukodystrophy or MLD is the most common type of leukodystrophies, a family of genetic disorders that affect myelin growth and development. Myelin is the fatty covering that insulates nerve fibers throughout the central and peripheral nervous systems. Metachromatic leukodystrophy is also alternatively known as Arylsulfatase A deficiency.
12312	Metastatic cancer is a term used in reference to cancer that has spread from its origin to other organs or parts of the body. Only malignant or cancerous cells have the capacity to metastasize.
12313	Metatropic dwarfism is an inherited skeletal dysplasia due to a defect in endochondral ossification. The abnormalities also show an association with defects in the longitudinal proliferation and maturation of chondrocytes as well as in the production of normal matrix.
12314	Methaemoglobinaemia pertains to a disorder marked by the presence of abnormally high levels of methemoglobin (a type of hemoglobin that doesn't bind oxygen) in the blood, possibly leading to anemia and tissue hypoxia. Methaemoglobinaemia is also sometimes referred to as met-Hb.
12315	Methicillin Resistant Staphylococcus Aureus (MRSA) is a bacterium responsible for difficult-to-treat infections in humans. It can also be referred to as multiple-resistant Staphylococcus aureus or oxacillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (ORSA). The organism is usually sub-categorized as Community-Associated MRSA (CA-MRSA) or Hospital-Associated MRSA (HA-MRSA) depending upon the circumstances of acquiring disease, based on current data that these are distinct strains of the bacterial species.
12316	This autosomal genetic disorder is also called methylmalonic aciduria and one that particularly affects the body's branched-chain amino acids. It is considered a classical type of academia that is organic in origin.
12317	Methylmalonyl-CoA mutase deficiency is a congenital error of organic acid metabolism. The condition is one form of Methylmalonic acidemia.
12318	Mevalonic aciduria is classified as a congenital metabolic disorder, which disrupts the body's production of cholesterol and isoprenoids. The disorder is also known as mevalonate kinase deficiency.
12319	Meyenburg-Altherr-Uehlinger syndrome is also known as Polychondritis. It is an auto-immune disease in which the body's immune system starts to destroy cartilage tissues. It is a disease subclass in Rheumatology.
12320	Michelin Tire Baby Syndrome is a congenital disorder in which an infant's forearms, lower legs, and neck have multiple, symmetric, circumferential skin creases, but disappear as the infant grows. The creases resemble Michelin's, the tire manufacturer, mascot.
12321	Microcephaly is a neurological disorder which results in an individual with a much smaller head circumference for individual's age and sex compared with the average head sizes.
12322	Microcoria is a congenital disease linked with juvenile-onset glaucoma. The disease results in children with pupils narrower than 2 millimeters in diameter.
12323	Microencephaly is a condition characterized by an individual's small head and neurological problems.
12324	Microphthalmia means small eyes, which is a condition resulting from the absence of vitreous humor fluid causing the eyes' failure to enlarge.
12325	Microscopic colitis refers to the colon's inflammatory conditions called collagenous colitis and lymphocytic colitis that are usually manifested through chronic watery diarrhea. The inflammation may occur in patches along the colon's lining in some people while in others, it manifests along the colon's entire length.
12326	Microscopic Hematuria is a condition whereby there is blood in the urine of the person but the same is visible only through the use of microscope. Unlike gross hematuria, or that kind of hematuria where by the person may see the usual manifestation of the blood in their urine.
12327	Microscopic polyangiitis is an autoimmune disease resulting from the inflammation of blood vessels causing damage to the organ system.
12328	Microspridiosis is an intection of the intestine that may become life-threatening if the patient's immune system is weak.
12329	Microtia an inborn deformity of the outer ear, which may be only on one side or both sides. When only one side is affected, the right ear is usually affected.
12330	Microvillus inclusion disease, also known as Davidson's disease, is a genetically inherited disorder of the small intestine.
12331	Migraine comes form the Greek word hemicrania, which literally means "half (the) head." It is a neurological syndrome that causes various symptoms during an attack.
12331	A migraine can be disabling with symptoms so severe, all you think about is finding a dark, quiet place to lie down. Up to 17 percent of women and 6 percent of men are experiencing migraine.
12332	Migraine with Aura is a condition whereby the person experience unusual visual sensations during or before the attack of migrain. It is characterized by the appearance of blind spots and flashes of lights.
12333	Mikulicz syndrome is a condition in which the parotid, lacrimal or salivary glands are enlarged.
12334	Mikulicz's disease involves enlarged lachrymal and salivary glands with a little autoimmune reactions and good response to glucocorticoids. A study suggests that it is an IgG4-related systemic disease.
12335	Mild cognitive impairment or MCI for brevity, is said to be that part of transition from the cognitive change in the normal aging process and the alzheimer's Disease. It has two types, to wit the Amnestic MCI and the Nonamnestic MCI.
12336	Milia is a skin condition usually seen in infants where there are presence of tiny white goose bumps across the infant's nose and chin.
12337	Miliaria rubra, also known as heat rash or prickly heat is a rash of small red bumps caused by blockage of the sweat glands. It may be due to excessive sweating, high fever or being over-bundled, where it is seen in commonly humid or hot tropical climates, and it can sometimes cause itching, discomfort and stinging or ?prickly?-type pain.
12338	Milk produced by cows is among the common allergy-causing dairy product, especially among children, However, majority of the cases of mild allergy, children outgrow this condition after a few years or so. Allergic reactions usually start after a few minutes of drinking milk, with symptoms ranging from mild discomfort to severe reactions that causes serious distress.
12339	Miller Fisher Syndrome is a descending paralysis. It is the reverse variant of Guillain-BarrÎ˜ syndrome. GBS exhibits an ascending paralysis from the legs spreading to the upper limbs and face with complete loss of deep tendon reflexes.
12340	Miller-Dieker syndrome is a disease, which is characterised by the brain's developmental defect.
12341	Milliaria most commonly known as heat rush or prickly heat, is a condition usually affecting children and even adults leaving in tropical climates where the weather is hot or humid. It occurs when the sweat ducts are blocked and the perspiration is stucked in the skin causing rashes and redness of the affected skin, it may also be in a form of small blisters that is often very itchy.
12342	Mineral deficiency is characterized by the insufficiency of essential minerals that are vital in the functioning of the body's organ systems. Common types of mineral deficiency are inadequate levels of iodine, iron, and calcium.
12343	Minimal change disease is a kidney disease that is common among children. It is also known as lipoid nephrosis and nil disease.
12344	Minkowski-Chauffard syndrome is a type of hemolytic anemia that is by hemolysis, a process during which the red blood cells undergo an abnormal breakdown.
12345	Mitochondrial diseases are a group of disorders relating to the mitochondria, the organelles that are the "powerhouses" of the eukaryotic cells that comprise higher-order lifeforms (including humans). The mitochondrion changes the energy of food molecules into the ATP that powers most cell functions.
12346	Mitochondrial disorders are disorders that affect the skeletal muscles as well as the heart muscles causing problems in the body's organs such as the nervous system, visual system, renal system and, digestive and circulatory systems.
12347	Mitochondrial trifunctional protein deficiency is a disorder that prevents certain fats in the body to convert to energy, specifically during periods of no food.
12348	Mitral atresia is a congenital defect wherein the mitral valve is closed prohibiting the flow of blood between the two heart chambers.
12349	A valvular heart disease, Mitral valve prolapse is characterized by the displacement of an abnormally thickened mitral valve leaflet into the left atrium during systole. MVP, in its nonclassis form, carries a low risk of complications. Severe cases of MVP though may include complications such as infective endocarditis, regurgitation and in rare circumstances, cardiac arrest that usually results to sudden death. The term for the disease was coined by J. Michael Criley in 1966. It gained acceptance over JB Barlow's "billowing" of the mitral valve description. MVP has different subtypes namely classic, nonclassic, symmetric, asymmetric, flail or non-flail. The subtypes are based on the leaflet thickness, convacity and type of connection to the mitral annulus.
12350	Mitral valve prolapse is a heart disease in which during systole, the mitral valve leaflet is displaced into the left atrium. An individual with this disease has an abnormally thick mitral valve leaflet.
12351	This heart disease is congenital where an abnormal heart valve (mitral valve) fails to close properly and allows some blood to leak through.
12352	Mitral valve regurgitation otherwise known as the mitral regurgitation or the mitral insufficiency, or the mitral incompetence, is a medical condition where the heart's mitral valve does not close tightly causing the blood to flow back in the heart causing fatigue and shortness of breathing.
12353	Mitral valve stenosis otherwise known as the mitral stenosis is a condition whereby the heart mitral valve is narrowed which thereby prevents the valve from opening fully and causes obstruction of blood flow between the left chamber of the heart.
12354	Mittelschmerz, a German word to refer middle pain, is condition where there is pain on one side of the lower abdomen that usually occurs in women midway or 14 days before their menstrual period.
12355	A disease also known as Sharp syndrome, mixed connective tissue disease (MCTD) is a term used by some experts to describe a collection of symptoms similar to those of systemic lupus erythematosus, scleroderma, polymyositis, and dermatomyositis. MCTD is a serious autoimmune disease in which the body's defense system attacks itself.
12356	Named after German neurologist Paul Julius Mobius, Mobius/Moebius syndrome is an extremely neurological disorder.
12357	MODY diabetes is short for Maturity Onset Diabetes of the Young, and pertains to a rare type of diabetes mellitus types that is genetically inherited.
12358	Referring to any several rare hereditary forms of diabetes mellitus due to dominantly inherited defects of insulin secretion, maturity onset diabetes of the young or MODY acts like a mild version of type 1 diabetes. the continued partial insulin production and normal insulin sensitivity however mean it is not type 2 diabetes in a young person. The most common forms of the disease are MODY 2 and MODY 3 but as of 2004, six more types have been named and more are likely to be added.
12359	This extreme neurological disorder is named after German neurologist Paul Julius.
12360	Moersch-Woltmann syndrome, also known as stiff person disease, is a rare neurological disorder that causes severe muscle stiffness which could lead to paralysis.
12361	Moeschler Clarren syndrome is also known as a congenital disorder affecting the development of the lower half of the face, most commonly the ears, the mouth and the mandible. The disease can either occur on one side of the face or both and sever cases can lead to difficulties in breathing, blocking the trachea. The condition may then require a tracheotomy. After clefts, Moeschler Clarren syndrome is the second most common facial birth defect with an incidence of 1 in 3500 to 4500.
12362	There are over a thousand identified types of mold found in the environment. However, only a few dozen are culprits in triggering an allergic reaction. Mold allergy is the hypersensitivity to exposure to certain types of mold, which can either thrive outdoor or indoor.
12363	Atypical moles (atypical nevi) or otherwise known as dysplastic moles (dysplastic nevi) are cause by collections of the color-producing (pigment-producing) cells of the skin (melanocytes) in which the cells grow in abnormal way. They may occur as new lesions or as a change in an existing mole and may be single or multiple. With the risk increasing with the number of atypical moles present, people with atypical moles may be at increased risk for developing skin cancer (melanoma).
12364	Moles otherwise known as Nevi, are clusters of pigmented cells that is usually small, and dark brown in color spots. It is usually not harmless but in some cases they are cancerous.
12365	A viral infection of the skin or occasionally of the mucous membranes, Molluscum contagiosum or MC has no animal reservoir and just like smallpox, only infects humans. MC has four different types namely MCV, MCV-1 to -4. The most prevalent is MCV-1, while MCV-2 commonly occurs among adults and is often sexually transmitted. The genitals, lower abdomen, buttocks and inner thighs are often affected in sexually transmitted MCV-2. The lips, mouth and eyelids may also be affected in rare cases.
12366	Sometimes known as Mondini malformation, Mondini dysplasia is an abnormality in the inner ear that may cause hearing loss. It is said that a person with the disorder had an incomplete cochlea, meaning, it has two, one and one half, one or no turns at all in the cochlea. Normal cochleas have two and a half turns.
12367	Named after French surgeon Henri Modor, Mondor's disease is a rare condition that may involve thrombophlebitis of the breast's superficial veins and the anterior chest wall. The disease may sometimes occur in the arm or penis. The disease is benign and self-limited. It may also involve 1 or more of 3 venous channels namely the thoracoepigastric vein, the lateral thoracic vein and the super epigastric vein.
12368	A disease that can develop during extended time living at altitude, Monge's disease, or Chronic mountain sickness was first described in 1925 by Carlos Monge. Its acute form is called acute mountain sickness, which occurs shortly after ascent to high altitude. Medicine describes high altitude as over 2500 meters though most cases of CMS occur at over 3000 meters.
12369	Said to be an autosomal dominant hair disease resulting in short, fragile and broken hair that appears beaded, Monilethrix got its name from the Latin word monile which means necklace and thrix, which is the Greek word for hair. It has not been determined though whether the disease is a disorder of the function or the structure of the hair.
12370	Monilla infection, also known as yeast infection, is a vaginal disease caused by the monilla fungus.
12371	Monkeypox is a rare infectious disease caused by monkeypox virus. The disease is first identified in laboratory monkeys, giving it its name. The disease is more prevalent in Central and West Africa, but an outbreak occurred also in the United States in 2003. Monkeypox can be difficult to distinguish from mild smallpox and chickenpox.
12372	Monoclonal gammopathy of undetermined significance (MGUS) or benign monoclonal gammopathy is a condition in which a low or non-quantifiable level of a monoclonal paraprotein is detected in the blood by means of protein electrophoresis. Undetermined in the term may also be replaced with unknown or uncertain.
12373	Monomelic amyotrophy (or MMA) pertains to a rare disorder of the motor neurons, which are a group of nerves responsible for controlling voluntary muscles.
12374	Mononeuritis multiplex comes out from problems with multiple individual nerves serially or almost simultaneously. It is a painful asymmetric asynchronous sensory and motor peripheral neuropathy involving isolated damage to at least 2 separate nerve areas.
12375	Infectious mononucleosis (mono), or glandular fever, is often called the kissing disease. The virus that causes this disease is transmitted by saliva, so kissing can spread the virus, but so can coughing, sneezing, or sharing a glass or food utensil. The name comes because the number of mononuclear leukocytes (white blood cells with a one-lobed nucleus) rises importantly.
12376	Morning sickness also called nausea, vomiting of pregnancy (emesis gravidarum or NVP), or pregnancy sickness, affects between 50 and 95 percent of all pregnant women as well as some women who use hormonal contraception or hormone replacement therapy. The nausea could be mild or induce actual vomiting.
12377	Morphea, a localized form of scleroderma, is a condition whereby there is the occurrence of the reddish or the purplish patching on the skin which usually occurs in the person's arms, torso and legs.
12378	Referred to as mucopolysaccharidosis IV or Morquio, the disorder is known to be an autosomal recessive mucopolysaccharide disease that is usually inherited. It is also considered a relatively rare case of dwarfism with serious consequences. This happens when the body cannot process certain types of mucopplysaccharides, then they just build up or are eliminated causing a range of symptoms. The type A form is a deficiency of the enzyme N-acetylgalactosamine-6-sulfate sulfatase.
12379	Also referred to as mucopolysaccharidosis IV or Morquio, the disease is known to be an autosomal recessive mucopolysaccharide disease that is more often than not inherited. It is also considered a relatively unusual case of dwarfism with serious consequences. This happens when the body cannot process certain types of mucopplysaccharides, they just build up or are eliminated causing a range of symptoms. The type A form is a deficiency of the enzyme N-acetylgalactosamine-6-sulfate sulfatase.
12380	Referred to as mucopolysaccharidosis IV or Morquio, the disorder is known to be an autosomal recessive mucopolysaccharide disease that is usually inherited. It is also considered a relatively rare case of dwarfism with serious consequences. This happens when the body cannot process certain types of mucopplysaccharides, then they just build up or are eliminated causing a range of symptoms. The type A form is a deficiency of the enzyme N-acetylgalactosamine-6-sulfate sulfatase.
12381	Morton's Neuroma, also called the plantar neuoma or the intermetatarsak neuroma, is a noncancerous growth of the nerve tissue in the foot, usually between the third and the fourth toes. It is not necessarily considered as a tumor but a mere thickening of the tissue around the digital nerves leading to the toes.
12382	Morvan disease is a rare autoimmune disorder characterized by muscle abnormalities, cramping, weakness, delirium and insomnia. There are only about 14 recorded cases of the disease throughout medical history.
12383	Mother-to-baby infections are diseases that are transmitted when a mother's amniotic membranes rupture. In the stage where her ?water bag breaks?, microbes such as viruses and bacteria can enter the womb. Other harmful microbes can also enter the womb during labor, which can affect the baby's growth and overall health. Some diseases meanwhile can be passed from skin contact. The diseases that are considered mother-to-baby-infections are E. coli infection and staphylococcus aureus infections. There are also diseases that come from body fluids. There are some illnesses carried by a woman during pregnancy, and they can be passed on to the baby through body fluids. These diseases include gonorrhea, HIV, herpes virus infection, and hepatitis B and C.
12384	Motion sickness (also known as car sickness, sea sickness, air sickness) occurs when two "motion messages" to the brain conflict. One "motion message" comes from the inner ear that controls balance and another "motion message" is from the eyes. During this changes in position caused by travel, these two "motion messages" conflict thereby causing motion sickness.
12385	MND or motor neurone diseases are a group of progressive neurological disorders that destroy the cells that control voluntary muscle activity such as speaking, walking, breathing, and swallowing. Those cells are called motor neurons. The disease has several forms including amyotrophic lateral sclerosis or ALS, primary lateral sclerosis (PLS), progressive muscular atrophy (PMA), and bulbar. Spinal muscular atrophy is sometimes considered a form of MND.
12386	Known as Hereditary Motor and Sensory Neuropathy (HMSN) or Peroneal Muscular Atrophy, Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease (CMT) is characterized by loss of muscle tissue and touch sensation, primarily in the feet and legs but also in the hands and arms in the advanced stages of disease. The disease is presently incurable and is one of the most common inherited neurological disorders, with 37 in 100,000 affected.
12387	Mounier-Kuhn's syndrome, also called tracheobronchomegaly is a rare lung disorder characterized by marked widening or dilation of the trachea and sometimes the larger bronchial tubes. When this happens the ability to clear mucus from the lungs is impaired.
12388	Mount-Reback syndrome or Mount' syndrome was named after the doctors who classified it namely Lester Adrian Mount and S. Reback. The disease is a form of Huntington's Chorea, a rare hereditary disease affecting various muscular and nervous systems in the body. Mount's syndrome passes to roughly 50% of the offspring and shares many of the same symptoms of Chorea. Chorea however is more severe and the shared symptoms may be caused by different factors. Persons with the disease experience attacks lasting for a few minutes to several hours when they are awake. Said attacks are most severe at an early or young ages and the symptom tend to lessen as the person grows. The reason for this is unknown.
12389	Mouth Cancer or Oral and throat cancers are pale lumps inside the mouth which does not in itself heal.
12390	Mouth ulcer is a condition characterized by the appearance of an open sore inside the oral cavity. It is also alternatively known as oral ulcer.
12391	In most parts of the world, except Japan, Moyamoya is considered an extremely rare disease. Characterized by progressive intracranial vascular stenoses of the circle of Willis, the condition may result to ischemic events as well as hemorrhagic events. It may also lead to irreversible blockage of the carotid arteries to the brain as they enter into the skull.
12392	Myeloperoxidse deficiency or MPO is a common genetic disorder featuring deficiency, in either quantity or function of the enzyme myeloperxidase. Said enzyme can be found in certain phagocytic immune cells, particularly polymorphonuclear leukocytes.
12393	Also called Mullerian agenesis, MRKH is the condition in a female where the mullerian ducts fail to develop and a uterus will not be present. MRKH stands for Mayer-Rokitansky-Kâ¿ster-Hauser Syndrome, derived from the names Augsut Franz Joseph Karl Mayer, Carl Freiherr von Rokitansky, Herman Kâ¿ster, and G.A. Hauser.
12394	First described in 1962 by Thomas James Muckle and Michael Vernon Wells, Muckle-Wells syndrome is also known as Urticaria-deafness-amyloidosis (UDA). It is a rare autosomal disease, which causes sensorineural deafness, recurrent hives, and can lead to amyloidosis. MWS happens when a mutation in the CIAS1 gene leads to increased activity of the cryopyrin protein. The disorder is closely related to two other syndromes, familial cold urticaria and neonatal onset multisystem inflammatory disease.
12395	A harmless, fluid-containing (cyst-like) swelling of the mouth or lip lining (mucosa) due to mucus from the small salivary glands of the mouth leaking into the soft tissue, usually from injury (trauma) or blockage of the gland is called oral mucocele.
12396	Mucocutaneous Lymph Node Syndrome otherwise known as the Kawasaki disease is a medical condition where there is an inflammation of the walls of the arteries throughout the body which may include the coronary arteries affecting the lymph nodes, skin and mucous membrane inside the throa, nose and mouth of the person.
12397	A group of autosomal recessive metabolic disorders, Mucopolysaccharidosis is caused to the absence or malfunctioning of lyosomal enzymes. Said enzymes are needed to break down the molecules called glycosaminoglycans.
12398	Mucopolysaccharidosis (MPS) type III or Sanfilippo syndrome can result from the deficiency of one of four enzymes that are necessary to degrade heparan sulfate. MPS III also has 3 subgroups namely A, B, C, and D.
12399	This is also known as Morqui syndrome, a disorder known to be autosomal recessive mucopolysaccharide disease that is usually inherited. It is also considered somewhat a rare case of dwarfism with serious consequences. This happens when the body is unable process certain types of mucopplysaccharides, then they just build up or are eliminated causing a range of symptoms. The type A form is a deficiency of the enzyme N-acetylgalactosamine-6-sulfate sulfatase.
12400	Hurler-Scheie is a subtype of MPS I, along with the Hurler syndrome. It is a deficiency in the a-L-iduronidase enzyme and the lysosomal accumulation of mucopolysaccharides.
12401	Also known as mucopolysaccharidosis type I, Hurler syndrome is a genetic disorder that results in the deficiency of alpha-L iduronidase. It is an enzyme that breaks down mucopolysaccharidosis in the lyosomes. A buildup of heparan sulfate and dermatan sulfate occurs in the bosy without said enzyme. Hurler syndrome is often classified as a lyosomal storage and is clinically related to Hunter's Syndrome.
12402	Mucopolysaccharidosis Type I or Scheie syndrome is an inherited disease of metabolism in which the body cannot properly break down long chains of sugar molecules called glycosaminoglycans. Belonging to the group of disease called mucopolysaccharidosis, it is specifically known as MPS I S.
12403	Hunter syndrome or mucopolysachharoidosis Type II is a lyososomal storage disease caused by a deficiency or absence of the enzyme idunorate-2-sulfatase (l2S). It is named after Scottish physician Charles A. Hunter who emigrated to Canada and practiced medicine there.
12404	Mucopolysaccharidosis Type II, called Hunter syndrome, has a severe form, Type A, which is usually found in children aged 18-36 months. Also considered the classic form, affected children may survive into the second and third decades of life.
12405	This is also known as Morqui syndrome, a disorder known to be autosomal recessive mucopolysaccharide disease that is usually inherited. It is also considered somewhat a rare case of dwarfism with serious consequences. This happens when the body is unable process certain types of mucopplysaccharides, then they just build up or are eliminated causing a range of symptoms. The type A form is a deficiency of the enzyme N-acetylgalactosamine-6-sulfate sulfatase.
12406	Affecting one in 100,000 people, Maroteaux-Lamy syndrome is a rare genetic disorder affecting one in 100,000 people wherein the enzyme arylsulfatase B is missing. The enzyme normally breaks down the mucopolysaccharides dermatan sulfate and without it mucopolysaccharides build up in all tissues in the body causing progressive deterioration and eventual death. Doctors Maroteaux and Lamy first described the disease in 1963.
12407	Sly syndrome or Mucopolysaccharidosis type VII is an autosomal recessive lyososomal storage disease characterized by a deficiency of the enzyme ?-glucuronidase, a lyososomal enzyme. The deficiency in the said enzyme results to the accumulation of certain comples carbohydrates in many tissues and organs of the body. The disease was named after its discoverer William Sly.
12408	Mucormycosis also known as zygomycosis or phycomycosis is a rare yet life threatening and serious infection of fungi, usually affecting the face or oropharyngeal cavity. Occasionally, when caused by Pythium or other similar fungi, the condition may affect the gastrointestinal tract or the skin. It often begins in the nose and paranasal sinuses and is one of the most rapidly spreading fungal infections in humans.
12409	Mulibrey nanism is a genetic disease and is an extremely rare autosomal recessive genetic disorder characterized by profound growth delays and distinctive abnormalities of the muscles, liver, brain, and eyes. The disorder can lead to dwarfism, which is another term for nanism. Mulibrey is an acronym that stands for (Mu)scle, (Li)ver, (Br)ain, and (Ey)e.
12410	Also known as MRKH syndrome, Mullerian agenesis refers to a condition in a female where the mullerian ducts fail to develop and a uterus will not be present. MRKH stands for Mayer-Rokitansky-Kâ¿ster-Hauser Syndrome, derived from the names Augsut Franz Joseph Karl Mayer, Carl Freiherr von Rokitansky, Herman Kâ¿ster, and G.A. Hauser.
12411	Multi-Infarct Dementia is a common type of dementia occurring in elderly people aged 65 years old and above. The term usually pertains to a group of syndromes resulting from vascular lesions in the brain.
12412	A form of irregular heartbeat in which the ventricle contracts prematurely, ventricular premature beat (VPB) or extrasystole is also known as premature ventricular contraction (PVC). The disorder may be perceived as a "skipped beat" or as palpitations. PVCs are said to be a natural probe since they induce Heart rate turbulence whose characteristic can be measured and utilized to evaluate cardiac function.
12413	Described as a chronic, recurring condition, Multiple chemical sensitivity is characterized by several adverse and variable affects from exposure to otherwise low levels of substances in modern human environments. MCVS has also been termed toxic injury (TI), chemical sensitivity (CS), chemical injury (CI), 20th century syndrome, environmental illness (EI), sick building syndrome, idiopathic environmental intolerance (IEI), and Toxicant-induced loss of tolerance (TILT).
12414	Sometimes called multiple endocrine adenomatosis or Wemer's syndrome, Multiple endocrine neoplasia type 1 (MEN1) is an inherited disorder affecting the endocrine glands. Occurring only in about 3 to 20 persons out of 100,000, MEN1 is quite rare but affects both sexes equally and has no geographical, ethnic, or racial preferences.
12415	Multiple endocrine neoplasia type 2 (MEN2) is a group of medical disorders linked with tumors that maybe benign or malignant, of the endocrine system. Generally occurring in endocrine organs such as thyroid, parathyroid, and adrenals, tumor/s may also occur in endocrine tissues and not in a classical endocrine organ. MEN2 itself is a sub-type of multiple endocrine neoplasia (MEN).
12416	Hereditary multiple exostoses (HME) is a medical condition that is rare, in which bony spurs or lumps (exostoses, or osteochondromas) develop on a child's bone. The disease is synonymous with Multiple hereditary exostoses and Multiple osteochondromatosis. The latter is the term used by the World Health Organization. Exostoses are do not exist at birth. However, 96 percent of affected people develop multiple exostoses by the time they are 12 years old.
12417	Multiple myeloma is a disease known to have several names; these include MM, myeloma, plasma cell myeloma, or as Kahler's disease after Otto Kahler. It a type of cancer of plasma cells that serve as immune system cells in the bone marrow that produce antibodies.
12418	Previously known as multiple organ failure (MOF), multiple organ dysfunction (MODS) is altered organ function in an acutely ill patient requiring medical intervention to achieve homeostasis. Using the term MOF should be avoided since the term was coined based upon physiologic parameters to determine whether or not a particular organ was failing.
12419	Multiple Personality Disorder of Disassociative Identity Disorder is a condition where by a person escapes the reality by using alternating or switching identities.
12420	Multiple sclerosis is a chronic, inflammatory, and demyelinating disease affecting the central nervous system. It also known as disseminated sclerosis or encephalomyelitis, which onset, usually occurs in young adults and more common among women. The disease was first described in 1868 by Jean-Martin Charcot.
12421	A disorder in which multiple parts of he nervous system experience degeneration, multiple system astrophy (MSA) encompasses three syndromes namely Shy-Drager syndrome, striatonigral degeneration, and olivopontocerebellar atrophy. The three were previously thought to be unrelated but are now known to all be parts of the same disorder.
12422	Mumps or epidemic parotitis is a human viral disease. "Mumps" originally meant "to mumble", and came to be useful to the disease due to the side effects it causes. Mumps was a common childhood disease worldwide prior to the development of vaccination and the introduction of a vaccine. It remains to be a significant health threat in third world countries.
12423	Named after Baron von Manchausen, Munchausen syndrome is a factitious psychiatric disorder or a mental illness. The condition's symptoms are caused by the affected persons themselves or self induced in order to draw attention or sympathy.
12424	Murray Valley encephalitis is a potentially fatal disease caused by Murray Valley encephalitis virus (MVEV), which can cause serious neurological repercussions when infecting humans.
12425	Muscle contraction headache pertains to a type of headache that results from tension or sustained muscle contraction.
12426	A muscle cramp is a sudden contraction of the muscles resulting in intense pain and the inability to use the affected muscles.
12427	Muscle dysmorphia is a disorder in which a person becomes obsessed with the idea that he or she is not muscular enough. People who suffer from muscle dysmorphia tend to hold delusions that they are "skinny" or "too small" but are often above average in musculature. Referred to as bigorexia or reverse anorexia nervosa, it is a most specific type of body dysmorphic disorder.
12428	Muscle Strain or commonly known as "pulled" muscles is a condition whereby there is a stretching or tearing of the muscles in contrast with the muscle sprain which is the stretching or tearing of the ligaments.
12429	Referring to a group of genetic and hereditary muscle disease that cause progressive muscle weakness, muscular dystrophies are characterized by progressive skeletal muscle weakness defects in muscle proteins, and the death of muscle cells and tissue. There are nine diseases that are classified as muscular dystrophies namely Duchenne, Becker, limb girdle, congenital, facioscapulohumeral, myotonic, oculopharyngeal, distal, and Emery-Dreifuss.
12430	Duchenne muscular dystrophy is characterized by decreasing muscle mass and progressive loss of muscle function in male children.
12431	Facioscapulohumeral muscular dystrophy is an autosomal dominant from of muscular dystrophy that is also known as Landouzy-Dejerine. It initially affects the skeletal muscles of the face (facio), scapula (scapulo) and upper arms (humeral) and is the third most common genetic disease of skeletal muscle.
12432	Also known as chronic fatigue syndrome (CFS), Myalgic encephalomyelitis is a poorly understood and debilitating disorder of uncertain cause or causes. According to a 1999 study among adults in the United States, CFS is thought to affect approximately 4 per 100 adults, and commonly occurs among women ages 40s and 50s.
12433	Myasthenia gravis is an autoimmune disorder, a neuromuscular disease that can lead to fluctuating muscle weakness and fatiguability. The name is coined from Greek and Latin terms, which literally means serious muscle weakness.
12434	A neuromuscular disease, Myasthenia gravis is an autoimmune disorder that can lead to unpredictable muscle weakness and fatigability. The term is coined from Greek and Latin terms, which literally means serious muscle weakness.
12435	Mycetoma, also referred to as Madura Foot, is a highly relevant disease commonly encountered in arid and semi-arid regions all over the world. This condition can be found in Mexico, the Sahel, in pan-Arabia, Brazil and in the semi-arid areas within India. Mycetoma can also exist in countries as distant as Romania. Mycetoma consists of two common forms. These are the bacterial mycetoma which is also referred to as actinomycetoma and the fungal mycetoma or also known as eumycetoma. These two common presentations of this condition are very hard to determine and differentiate from each another even under the electron microscopy.
12436	Mycobacterium avium complex (or MAC) pertains to a group of genetically-related bacteria of the genus Mycobacterium which, in humans, can cause fatigue, fever, and weight loss.
12437	Mycoplasma pneumoniae (shortened as M. pneumoniae) pertains to a tiny bacterium belonging to the class Mollicutes. In general, Mollicutes lack a peptidoglycan cell wall, and instead have a cell membrane that contains sterol compounds similar to eukaryotic cells. These sterols are obtained from the host sterum, allowing the organism to retain its simple structure. Because of the absence of a cell wall, these organisms are therefore resistant to penicillin and other beta-lactam antibiotics, which work by destroying the bacterial cell wall.
12438	Mycoplasmal pneumonia is a bacterial infection caused by a very small bacterium, in the class Mollicutes. Characteristically, these organisms are resistant to penicillin as well as in other beta-lactam antibiotics. The bacteria closely associated with this condition spread via transmission of respiratory droplets. When the bacteria get attached to the mucosa of a host organism, it will extract nutrients to grow. Its reproduction is by binary fission. The sites where it can commonly get attached include the upper and lower respiratory tract which results to bronchitis, pharyngitis and pneumonia. Atypical Pneumonia refers to the infection caused by this very small bacterium primarily due to its protracted course. Moreover, it is characterized by lack of sputum production and by multiple extra-pulmonary symptoms. Chronic mycoplasma infections had also been associated with rheumatoid arthritis. The severity of illnesses from mycoplasma is often defined as mild to moderate.
12439	Mycosis Fungoides is also referred to as Alibert-Bazin Syndrome or granuloma fungoides. It is the most common presentation of cutaneous T-cell lymphoma wherein the skin is the primary part of the body that is affected. As the disease progresses, it can also affect the internal organs and the blood. This condition was initially described in 1806 by a French dermatologist named, Jean-Louis-Marc Alibert. Mycosis fungoides caused several misconceptions because it stands for a fungal disease characterized by a mushroom-like presentation. It was named as such by Alibert based upon his description of the disease's severe case which appears similarly to a mushroom. However, it is far from a fungal disease or infection. It is actually a type of non-Hodgkin's lymphoma.
12440	Mycosis Fungoides Lymphoma is classified as the most common presentation of cutaneous T-cell lymphoma. In general, the skin is the primary part of the body that is affected. However, it can advance internally as the disease progresses. Initially described in 1806 by a French dermatologist named, Jean-Louis-Marc Alibert, mycosis fungoides lymphoma caused some misconceptions. It stands for a fungal disease characterized by a mushroom-like presentation. It was named as such by Alibert based upon his description of the disease's severe case which appears similarly to a mushroom. However, it is far from a fungal disease or infection. It is actually a type of non-Hodgkin's lymphoma.
12441	Myelitis is a disease that affects humans which is characterized by swelling or inflammation of the spinal cord. This condition targets and causes disruption in the functions of the central nervous system, particularly the part linking the brain and extremities.
12442	Myelodysplasia is characterized by a diverse group of hematological conditions. This particular disease is associated with ineffective blood cell production. It is presented with varying chances of transforming into acute myelogenous leukemia. In majority of cases, this condition is also associated with severe anemia that requires regular blood transfusion.
12443	Myelodysplastic Syndromes or MDS was previously known as Preleukemia. It is characterized by a diverse group of hematological conditions. This hematological disease is associated with ineffective blood cell production. It is presented with varying chances of transforming into acute myelogenous leukemia. In majority of cases, this condition is also associated with severe anemia that requires regular blood transfusion.
12444	Myelofibrosis with myeloid metaplasia is also referred to as Agnogenic Myeloid Metaplasia, Chronic Idiopathic Myelofibrosis, and Primary Myelofibrosis. This condition was initially described in 1879. At present, it is classified as myeloproliferative disease resulting from the growth and proliferation of an abnormal bone marrow stem cell. This is due to the bone marrow being replaced with fibrous connective tissue. Assmann's Disease or Heuck-Assmann Disease is an eponym for this condition. Mean survival for patients with this condition is 5 years. Usual causes of mortality are bleeding, infection, portal hypertension, organ failure and resulting leukemia.
12445	Myeloma is a kind of cancer of plasma cells which are immune system cells in bone marrow that produce antibodies. Myeloma is regarded as incurable, but remissions could be induced with steroids, chemotherapy, thalidomide and stem cell transplants. Myeloma is a part of the broad group of diseases called hematological malignancies.
12446	Myelomeningocele otherwise known as the Spina Bifida is a birth defect that is often called the neural tube defect which is caused whenever the tissue found in the spinal cord of a fetus does not close orderly resulting in to a defect in the spinal cord and the backbone of the infant.
12447	Myeloperoxidase deficiency is considered a common genetic disorder which is characterized by a deficiency in the quantity of enzyme myeloperoxidase or its lack of functionality in the human body. This enzyme can usually be found in some types of phagocytic immune cells, the polymorphonuclear leukocytes in particular. Myeloperoxidase deficiency typically has no distinct signs of immunodeficiency among majority of affected patients. This is despite its immune deficiency presentation which is especially observed in candida albicans infections. Basically, this condition shows no specific manifestations of an immunodeficiency. The absence of major symptoms for Myeloperoxidase deficiency suggest that the role of the enzyme myeloperoxidase in immune responses might be similar with that of other mechanisms of intracellular killing of bacteria that had been phagocytosed.
12448	Myiasis is a disease affecting both animals and humans resulting from parasitic dipterous fly larvae which is feeding on the host's living or necrotic tissues. Other colloquial terms used for the disease Myiasis are fly-strike and fly blown. Fritz Zumpt, a German entomologist described this disease as "the infestation of live human and vertebrate animals with dipterous larvae, which at least for a period, feed on the host's dead of living tissue, liquid body substances, or ingested food."
12449	Myoadenylate Deaminase Deficiency or MADD is classified as a metabolic disorder with a recessive genetic cause. This condition affects about 1-2% of the Eastern descent populations which makes it not particularly a rare disease. MADD is somewhat rarer in the Oriental populations. Myoadenylate Deaminase which is also referred to as AMP deaminase is an enzyme responsible in converting adenosine monophosphate or AMP into inosine monophosphate or IMP. This process frees ammonia molecule. This is a portion of metabolic process responsible in converting sugar, fat and protein to cellular energy. A cell usually converts sugar, fat and protein to adenosine triphosphate (ATP) through the mitochondria to utilize energy. Processes within the cell, the muscles in particular then convert ATP to adenosine diphosphate or ADP which frees the energy to perform work. Failure to deaminate AMP molecules covers three major effects which are: 1. The cell and body loses considerable amounts of AMP 2. Ammonia is not freed or released in the event that the cell performs work 3. Maintenance of IMP levels within the cell is impaired
12450	Myocardial Infarction is the medical term for heart attack which is the occurrence of blood clot which hampers and block the blood flow in the coronary artery which is a blood vessel that supplies blood to a part of the muscle of the heart. This interruption of the flow of blood will often damage or even destroy the part of the heart muscle.
12451	Myocarditis is a cardiology condition marked by an inflammation of the myocardium, the muscular part of the heart, due to either viral or bacterial infection.
12452	Myoclonus is a medical symptom marked by a brief, involuntary twitching of a muscle or a group of muscles, often caused by contractions of the muscle as a result of brief lapses in concentration.
12453	Myoclonus epilepsy is a type of brain function disturbance characterized by epileptic seizures, muscle twitching or myoclonus, and other serious symptoms.
12454	Myofascial pain syndrome is type of muscle pain which centers around the trigger points or those sensitive points of the muscles.
12455	The presence of myoglobin in the urine results in a condition known as myoglobinuria, and is usually correlated with rhabdomyolysis or muscle destruction. Myoglobin is the red pigment of muscle cells which serve as an oxygen reserve.
12456	Myomas other wise known as the uterine fibroids, fibromyomas and leiomyomas, is a condition where there is growth of fibroids in the uterus.
12457	The word myopathy literally means muscle disease. "Myo" is from the Greek word for muscle, while "pathy" is Greek for "suffering". More specifically, myopathies are neuromuscular conditions wherein the muscle fibers are damaged and no longer function for a number of reasons, thus resulting in muscular weakness. Myopathy implies a primary defect in the muscle. Even mild muscle complaints, such as cramps, stiffness, and spasms are, in fact, associated with this disorder. Myopathy is a very broad term. Specific classes are available with more distinct classifications. Some of these classes are dystrophies, myotonia, neuromyotonia, mitochondrial myopathies, and familial periodic paralysis, among others.
12458	Myotubular Myopathy is the most common form of Centronucleara myopathies, in which the cell nuclei are located at a position in the center of the skeletal muscle cells, instead of their normal location at the periphery.
12459	Centronuclear myopathies (or CNM) are a group of rare congenital myopathies that occur when cell nuclei are abnormally located in the center of the skeletal muscle cells (whereas, normally, they are located in the periphery). A myopathy implies a disease of the muscle tissue itself - myo is from the word muscle and pathos literally means disease. CNM is considered very rare, but its most commonly occurring form is Myotubular Myopathy (or MTM).
12460	Myopia, more commonly called near or short-sightedness, is characterized by a refractive defect of the eye wherein collimated light produces image focus in front of the retina when accommodation is relaxed.
12461	Severe myopia is a severe form of near- or short-sightedness that often result in retinal detachments and primary open-angle glaucoma. The most difficult form of this condition, severe myopia or high myopia, is classified with a degree or severity of -6.00 or more. This measurement is in diopters, which measure the strength of optical power of the corrective lens.
12462	Myositis is a general medical term encompassing conditions with muscle inflammation. Most myositis disorders are caused by autoimmune factors, rather than directly due to infection. Basically, the muscle fibers become damaged by inflammation, thus interfering with muscle contraction and eventually causing muscle weakness. Some documented types of myositis include myositis ossificans, fibromyositis, idiopathic inflammatory myopathiesm, and pyomyositis.
12463	Myositis ossificans is a nonhereditary type of a syndrome marked by heterotopic ossification or calcification of the muscles. In myositis ossificans, extra-skeletal bone develops at the area of the injured muscle, typically in the arms or in the quadriceps of the thighs.
12464	Myositis ossificans progressiva, also known as fibrodysplasia ossificans progressiva, is one of two kinds of heterotopic ossification or calcification of the muscle. This is a rare genetic condition, with an autosomal dominant pattern, in which the ossification occurs even without injury and grows in an often predictable pattern.
12465	Myotonic dystrophy, also known as muscular dystrophy, is a progressive crippling illness presented by extreme muscle weakness until the affected person is confined to a wheelchair.
12466	Myotubular Myopathy (MTM) is the most common form of a group of congenital myopathies called centronuclear myopathies (CNM). CNM is characterized by the abnormal positioning of the nuclei in the skeletal muscle cells. Normally, the nuclei are located at the periphery. But in CNM patients, they are located centrally, i.e. in the center of the cell. The term myotubular myopathy was first coined by a New York neurologist named Dr. Spiro. Dr. The presence of nuclei in the center of the cells reminded Dr. Spiro of the "myotubular" stage during embryonic development, thus the term. He suspected that the myopathy may be caused by growth detention during the myotubular phase.
12467	Myxedema (spelled "myxoedema" in British English) is a disorder of the skin and tissue brought about by severe and prolonged hypothyroidism. Hypothyroidism is a disorder affecting both humans and animals caused by the insufficiency of thyroid production by the thyroid gland.
12468	Also known as a digital mucous cyst or pseudocys, a myxoid cyst is a growth usually tissues and may be associated with osteoarthritis.
12469	Myoxozoa is an exotic disease caused by a group of parasitic individuals called myxozoa. The term is from the Greek "myx", meaning slime or mucus, and "zoa", meaning animals. The myxozoa were originally believed to be protozoan, but were later distinguished to be metazoan through rDNA testing.
12470	The Naegeli syndrome, otherwise known as the Naegeli-Franceschetti-Jadassohn syndrome, is a rare skin condition. This genetic defect is autosomal dominant in form, with pigmentation of the reticular skin as the most striking characteristic. Named after Professor Oskar Naegeli, a Swiss dermatologist and master chess player, the Naegeli syndrome often affects the palms and soles of humans.
12471	Naegleria pertains to a rare infection caused by an amoeba called Naegleria fowleri which invades the brain, causing inflammation and destroying the brain tissue.
12472	Naegleria infection is a rare infection or disease whereby the naegleria amoeba enters the body through the nose while swimming or other water activity, which goes to the brain through the ofactory nerve thereby causing inflammation or swelling and eventually to the destruction of the brain tissues.
12473	Nail avulsion is the removal of a part or the entirety of the nail from the bed, often as a consequence of destruction of trauma or injury.
12474	Nail fungus results from a fungi infection of the nails which spreads into the nail and causes discoloration and thickening of the nails. Nail Fungal Infection is also called Onychomycosis.
12475	The nail-patella syndrome (NPS) is a genetic disorder inherited through autosomal dominant pattern. This condition is also popularly known as Iliac Horn Syndrome, Hereditary Onychoostedysplasia, Fong Disease or Turner-Kiser Syndrome.
12476	Nappy rash is a common ailment experienced by babies. It is characterized by rashes and irritation on the bowel caused by bacteria and fungi due to improper hygiene procedures.
12477	Narcissistic personality disorder is a mental disorder in which people have an inflated sense of their own importance and a deep need for admiration. They believe that they are superior to others and have little regard for other people's feelings. However behind this mask of ultra-confidence lies a fragile self-esteem, vulnerable to the slightest criticism.
12478	Narcolepsy is a neurological condition wherein patients exhibit excessive daytime sleepiness (EDS). The word itself is derived from the French word narcolepsie. It was Jean-Baptiste-â•”douard GÎ˜lineau, a 19th century French physician, who first coined the term by combining the Greek words "narke" (meaning numbness) and lepsis (meaning attack or seizure).
12479	Narcolepsy-Cataplexy is a sleep disorder. Affected individuals are extremely drowsy even during the daytime; they may also fall asleep regardless of the time. After taking a short nap, persons with narcolepsy will feel and look rejuvenated and revived but after a short while will feel drowsy again.
12480	Nasal Polyps are the soft and usually not cancerous or benign growth of polyps in the lining of the nose or the sinuses.
12481	Nasopharyngeal cancer is a malignant tumor that grows in the nasopharynx. This tumor blocks the passageways in that open the upper throat. This passage is also where the olfactory tubes open into the throat.
12482	Nasopharyngeal carcinoma is cancer originating in the nasal part of the pharynx, which is the topmost region of the throat; the area where the nasal passes and the auditory tubes join the remaining portions of the upper respiratory tract.
12483	Naxos Disease is an autosomal recessive modification of Arrhythmogenic right ventricular dysplasia (ARVD, also known as Arrhythmogenic right ventricular cardiomyopathy or ARVC). It is a very rare syndrome characterized primarily by the heart disease and wooly hair.
12484	Nearsightedness otherwise known as the myopia is a condition whereby the person can see clearly the objects near him clearly but not those which are far away which are usually blurred.
12485	Neck cancer (or, more appropriately, head and neck cancer) pertains to a group of biologically related carcinomas that originate from the upper aerodigestive tract, including: the cavity (mouth), lip, paranasal sinuses, oral nasal cavity, larynx, and pharynx. In most cases, head and neck cancers originate from the epithelium or mucosal lining of the squamous cell regions.
12486	Neck pain is a medical condition where there is an acute and chronic pain in the neck which may be caused by poor posture.
12487	Necrotizing fasciitis also known as fasciitis necroticans is a rare infection of the deeper skin layers and subcutaneous tissues spreading in the superficial and deep fascia enough to produce thrombosis of the subcutaneous vessels and eventually gangrene in the underlying tissues. This medical condition is commonly known as "flesh-eating bacteria".
12488	Neisseria Meningitidis is simply referred to as meningococcus. It is a gram-negative diplococcal bacterium that is remarkably known for its significant role in meningitis, which is medically known as the inflammation of the meninges. Neisseria Meningitidis is the only form of bacterial meningitis identified to cause prevalent cases or epidemics. This syndrome does not only refer to meningitis but actually refers to several types of diseases caused by the Neisseria Meningitidis bacteria.
12489	Nelson's Syndrome is the rapid enlargement of a pituitary tumor that comes about after removing both adrenal glands.
12490	Nemaline myopathy is a congenital hereditary neuromuscular disorder that causes muscular weakness that continuously progresses and with varying severity. It is also known as rod myopathy or nemaline rod myopathy. Nemaline myopathy is a clinical and genetical heterogeneous disease. This disorder has two forms: autosomal dominant and autosomal recessive forms. Autosomal dominant form is produced by a defective gene contributed by one parent while autosomal recessive form is produced by defective genes coming from both parents.
12491	Neonatal ALD (short for neonatal adenoleukodystrophy) is a genetic disease affecting infants, causing damage to the adrenal gland and the myelin sheath, or the protective coating of the nerve cells.
12492	Neonatal Hemochromatosis is a rare and severe liver disease. It is also known as perinatal hemochromatosis or neonatal iron storage disease.
12493	Neonatal hepatitis also known as perinatal hepatitis is a rare fulminant liver disease. It is characterized by extremely excessive deposition of iron in the liver, pancreas, endocrine glands, and heart. It is a life threatening condition wherein death is common during the fetal or infant stage.
12494	Neonatal herpes is a rare but serious medical condition. It is usually the result of vertical transmission of the virus from mother-to-newborn child. There are also cases when the disease is acquired afterbirth from parent, caretaker or sibling.
12495	Neonatal jaundice pertains to the yellowing of a newborn infant's skin due to a buildup of indirect unconjugated bilirubin in the skin.
12496	Neonatal lupus (short for Neonatal lupus erythematosus) is a rare disease that results from the transplacental passage of maternal autoantibodies.
12497	Neonatal myasthenia is a postsynaptic neuromuscular transmission defect that arises as a complication in the infants of mothers with myasthenia gravis, an autoimmune disease that affects the transmission of signals from nerves to muscles.
12498	Neonatal ophthalmitis pertains to a discharge of pus from the eye of a newborn infant. It is also alternatively known as opthalmia neonatorum.
12499	Neonatal respiratory distress syndrome pertains to a relatively common complication affecting prematurely born infants. Also called infant respiratory distress syndrome (IRDS), hyaline membrane disease, or respiratory distress syndrome in infants, this condition is characterized by breathing difficulties.
12500	Neonatal tetanus is a serious tetanus infection of newborn infants. It is also alternatively known as tetatnus neonatorum. In general, tetanus can affect people of all ages; but in babies, this disease is particularly serious and may be fatal.
12501	Neonatal Jaundice is the yellowing of the skin and other tissues of a newborn infant due to accumulation of indirect unconjugated bilirubin in the skin. This is the result of an overall increase in the total bilirubin in the blood.
12502	Nephritis pertains to kidney inflammation, often as a result of toxins, infections, and auto-immune diseases. The term nephritis is derived from the Greek words "nephro", which means "of the kidney", and "itis", meaning "inflammation".
12503	Neuroblastoma is a type of cancer which affects infants and children which usually occurs and develops in the nerve cells of the body. It usually occurs in and around the adrenal glands but it some cases it may also grow in the chest, neck and pelvis.
12504	Nephrocalcinosis is a condition wherein calcium salt deposits affect the function of the kidney. The condition is most commonly seen as an incidental finding for medullary sponge kidney through an x-ray of the abdomen.
12505	Diabetes Insipidus is a medical condition referring to inability of the kidney to concentrate urine; characterized by excretion of large amounts of severely diluted urine that cannot be trimmed down even if you reduce the amount of fluid intake.
12506	Nephropathy pertains to disease or damage of the kidney. Previously, nephropathy was known by its older term, nephrosis.
12507	Nephrosclerosis is a medical condition referred to as hypertensive nephropathy, which is a medical condition indicating damage to the kidney because of chronic high blood pressure. Nephrosclerosis is characterized by hardening of the kidney's artery and arterioles.
12508	Nephrotic syndrome is a nonspecific disorder in which the kidneys are damaged instigating them to leak large protein amounts from the blood into the urine.
12509	Nerve cancer pertains to a type of carcinoma affecting the nerve cells, often involving a tumor that originates from the cells of the nervous system. Nerve cancer is also usually associated with brain cancer.
12510	Nervous breakdown is a term used in reference to a wide range of mental illnesses. Nervous breakdown is definitely not a medical or clinical term; and nor does it pertain to any specific type of mental disorder. In general, the term describes an episode of extreme emotional distraught or an event in which a person displays symptoms of various mental illnesses.
12511	Paraneoplastic syndromes particularly that of the nervous system is a result of the body's reaction to the presence of cancer or to substances that an existing tumor located in the nervous system may produce.
12512	Neural Tube Defect, folate-sensitive Neural tube defect is a medical condition pertaining to any defect occurring in the neural tube. These are the most common and highly devastating as well as disabling birth defect. Spina bifida is an example of a neural tube defect. Neurolation is a part of organogenesis (development of internal organs of a body) in vertebrate embryos. Any interruption or anomaly during this process will produce neural tube defects in a fetus.
12513	Neuralgia pertains to an intense pain caused by damage to or irritation of a nerve.
12514	Postherpetic neuralgia, said to be a complication of shingles and outbreak for the second time of the varicella-zoster virus, is a medical condition characterized by pain which usually produces rashes and blisters in the nerve fibers of the skin. It is said to be the remains of for example a chicken pox which are reactivated several years later after the healing of the chickenpox.
12515	Neuraminidase deficiency is a medical condition caused by insufficient amounts of neuraminidase, a glycoside hydrolase enzyme, which is known to one of the enzymes present on the surface of the Influenza virus. Deficiency of neuraminidase results to the development of a rare lysosomal storage disease called sialidosis.
12516	Neurasthenia is a medical condition also known as Chronic Fatigue Syndrome. It is characterized by a combination of fatigue, headache, anxiety, headache, neuralgia or painful disorders of the nerve, depression or any turndown in the mood and impotence (the inability to develop erection of the penis). The term "Neurasthenia" was first used in 1869 by George Miller Beard.
12517	Neuritis is a term used to describe a general inflammation of the peripheral nervous system, affecting either a single nerve or a series of nerves in various parts of the body.
12518	Neuroacanthocytosis is also known as Levine-Critchley syndrome or chorea-acanthocytosis). It is a rare movement disorder. This disorder has adult and childhood varieties. Neuroacanthocytosis is typically an inherited autosomal recessive disorder. Occurrence is more prevalent in males than in females.
12519	Neuroblastoma is a neuroendocrine tumor, originating from any neural crest element of the sympathetic nervous system (SNS). The sympathetic nervous system is a branch of the autonomic nervous system. It is a nerve network responsible for carrying messages from the brain throughout the whole body. It is also the part of the brain responsible for fight-or-flight response and adrenaline or epinephrine production. Neuroblastoma commonly begins in one of the adrenal glands.
12520	Neurocysticercosis pertains to an infection of the central nervous system caused by the larva of a pork tapeworm known as Taenia solium.
12521	Neurodermatitis, otherwise known as the lichen simplex chronicus or the scratch dermatitis, is a the condition of the skin where the skin becomes thick and leathery due to the cycle of itching and scratching.
12522	Neuroendocrime Carcinoma of the skin or the Merkel cell carcinoma, is a type of cancer that appears as a flesh colored or bluish red nodule on the skin, commonly in the face, head or neck.
12523	Neuroendocrine cancer is cancer of the interface between the endocrine system and the nervous system. It is also known as gastro-entero-pancreatic or gastroenteropancreatic neuroendocrine tumors (GEP-NETs). Some examples of neuroendocrine tumors are carcinoid tumors, islet cell tumors, medullary thyroid carcinoma, and pheochromocytoma. These tumors secrete hormones in excess, causing a variety of symptoms.
12524	Neurofibrillary tangles are pathological protein aggregates found within the neurons of patients identified as having Alzheimer's Disease. Hyperphosphorylation of a protein associated with a microtubule is the one responsible for the formation of these tangles; causing it to gather together and accumulate in an insoluble form. Along with Alzheimer's disease, Creutzfeldt-Jakob and Supranuclear Palsy are some of the disease that is proven to be having the presence of neurofibrillary tangles. It was Alois Alzheimer, who described neurofibrillary tangles in one of his patients who have Alzheimer's disease. These abnormal structures are found in various parts of the brain and known to be as one of the hallmarks of Alzheimer's Disease.
12525	Neurofibroma is a type of nerve sheath tumor. Nerve sheath tumors are nervous system tumors which are mostly consist of myelin surrounding nerves. Essentially, Neurofibroma is a benign tumor originating from nerve cells. It usually arises from nerves in the skin or under the skin.
12526	Neurofibromatosis is an autosomal dominant genetic disorder. Neurofibromatosis covers all distinct genetic disorders that cause tumors to develop along different nerves.
12527	Neurofibromatosis type 2 is an inherited disorder. It is also known as MISME Syndrome (Multiple Inherited Schwannomas, Meningiomas, and Ependymomas). This disease is characterized by the development of symmetric, benign tumors in the portion of the auditory-vestibular nerve. This nerve is the one responsible for conveying sensory information coming from the inner ear to the brain.
12528	Neurogenic bladder is a disorder of the muscles and nerves of the urinary system. The nerves is unable to carry the message properly that cause abnormal urinary function.
12529	Neurogenic bladder is a disorder of the muscles and nerves of the urinary system. The nerves is unable to carry the message properly that cause abnormal urinary function.
12530	Neuroleptic malignant syndrome is a critical, life-threatening neurological disorder usually due to an adverse reaction neuroleptic or antipsychotic drugs.
12531	Neuroma is a term generally used to describe any swelling or inflammation of a nerve, but more specifically used in reference to a tumor (usually benign) growing in the nerve cells.
12532	A Plantar Neuroma or an Intermetatarsal Neuroma is an unusual growth of nerve tissue in the different parts of the body, most especially the third and fourt toes whereby there is a burning pain the ball of the foot.
12533	Neuropathic pain is a term used in reference to a state of complex, chronic pain accompanied by tissue injury.
12534	Neuropathy is a peripheral nerve disease; i.e. a disorder of the motor, sensory, and autonomic nerves that connect the spinal cord to the skin, muscles, and internal organs.
12535	Neurosis pertains to a wide range of mental disorders that, unlike psychosis and certain types of personality disorders, do not generally affect self-awareness and overall rational thought. It is also known as neurotic disorder or psychoneurosis.
12536	Neurotoxic shellfish poisoning is a rare type of food poisoning that results from ingesting contaminated shellfish.
12537	Neurotoxicity syndromes are disorders characterized by altered nervous system functioning due to exposure to natural or man-made neurotoxins. Exposure to these toxic substances can result to nervous system poisoning by destroying or even killing neurons, which are the key cells responsible for transmitting and processing signals in the brain and other parts of the nervous system.
12538	Neutropenia is a condition of an abnormal low number of a type of a particular type of white blood cell called a neutrophil. White blood cells are the cells in the blood that has an important role in the body's immune by fighting off infection. Because white blood cells could be affected by many diseases, doctors will often check the "white blood cell count" in evaluating health conditions.
12539	Nevi otherwise known as the Moles, are clusters of pigmented cells that is usually small, and dark brown in color spots. It is usually not harmless but in some cases they are cancerous.
12540	This condition is also known referred to as Multiple Basal Cell Carcinoma Syndrome, Basal Cell Nevus Syndrome, Gorlin-Goltz Syndrome or Gorlin Syndrome. This condition can be inherited. A person with this disease has multiple defects. Affected areas of the body include the skin, eyes and bones, nervous and endocrine systems. This condition had its very first definition in 1960. It is an autosomal dominant condition that causes unusual appearance of the face and a higher risk for cancer. 1 case per 56,000-164,000 population had been reported to have this condition. A child who had inherited the defective gene from either his mother or father will most likely have NBCCS.
12541	Nevus, or nevi in plural form, is the medical term for moles, which are basically clusters of pigmented cells that typically appear as small, dark brown spots on the skin's outer layer (epidermis). Nevi can be found in virtually any part of the body.
12542	A type of melanocytic nevus (or mole), congenital melanocytic nevus is found in infants at birth. It is located in the area of the neck and head 15% of the time occurring in about 1% of infants in the United States. Its appearance is similar to those of acquired one but is usually larger in diameter and may have excess hair, called hypertrichosis. Congenital melanocytic nevus microscopically appears similar to acquired nevi with two notable exceptions. The neval cells are found deeper into the dermis for congenital virus, and the deeper neval cells are found along with neurovascular bundles with surrounding sebaceous glands, hair follicles and subcutaneous fat.
12543	Nezelof syndrome is also a form of thymic dysplasia. This condition is due to a congenital immunodeficiency meaning it is already present at birth. Underdevelopment of the thymus is the major finding among patients. It is also the primary cause of this disease. This condition is an immune deficiency disorder in which the cells that normally fight infections are unable to do their job. As a result, the body becomes sensitive and prone to various forms of infections such as viral and bacterial. Secondary complications affecting the different systems of the body usually arise due to the inability of the immune system to function normally. Nezelof Syndrome is classified as a rare disease mainly affecting the immune system. This condition is strongly considered as a form of combined immunodeficiency in ICD-10 and a deficiency of cell-mediated immunity in ICD-9.
12544	Niacin overdose pertains to an excessive ingestion of niacin, a component of the vitamin B complex primarily responsible for converting food into energy and controls the metabolism of carbohydrates, fats, and proteins. If taken in excessive doses, niacin can cause peptic ulcers, liver damage, and skin rashes.
12545	Nicholas-favre disease, also known as lymphogranuloma venereum, is a sexually transmitted disease characterized by genital ulcers. It can affect the lymph nodes and cause serious problems in the bloodstream.
12546	Nickel is one of the most common metals that is found in majority of everyday items, such as belt buckles, eyeglasses frames, jewelry, etc. Nickel allergy is a sensitivity to products that contain nickel, triggering an allergic reaction upon contact to skin or what is known as contact dermatitis. This is a type of skin inflammation that results to the swelling and reddening of the skin.
12547	Nicotine dependence is a condition where the person is vulnerable to a rather addicting chemical known as nicotine that is found in cigars and pipes.
12548	Niemann-Pick disease is classified as an autosomal recessive disorder that mainly affects the metabolism of lipids in the body. This means that the process of breaking down fats in the body and the manner of utilizing it for daily activities is impaired. This disorder affects the body in a way because it causes excessive and unhealthy amounts of lipids or fats to accumulate in the liver, bone marrow, lungs, spleen and even in the brain. Niemann-Pick disease is classified into three variants - Types A, B and C. There are two distinct bases for the variants of this disease. First is on the genetic cause and second on the symptoms being presented by the patients.
12549	Niemann-Pick disease is classified as an autosomal recessive disorder which affects the metabolism of lipids or fats in the body. The process of breaking down fats in the body and fat utilization to support daily activities is abnormal. As a result, excessive and unhealthy amounts of lipids or fats to accumulate in the liver, bone marrow, lungs, spleen and even in the brain. Niemann-Pick disease is classified into three variants - Types A, B and C. There are two distinct bases for the variants of this disease. First is on the genetic cause and second on the symptoms being presented by the patients.
12550	Niemann-Pick disease is classified as an autosomal recessive disorder. It primarily affects the way fats or lipids are metabolized in the body. This means that the normal process of breaking down fats within the body and the manner in which they are being utilized for daily activities is impaired. This disorder severely affects the body because it can cause excessive and unhealthy buildup of lipids or fats in the liver, bone marrow, lungs, spleen and even in the brain. There are three variants of Niemann-Pick Disease which are Types A, B and C. Classification is based on the genetic cause and on the symptoms being presented.
12551	Niemann-Pick disease Type C is classified as an autosomal recessive disorder. It mainly affects the metabolism of fats and lipids in the body. The process of fat breakdown in the body and the manner of utilizing it for daily activities is greatly affected. This disorder which impairs fat metabolism in the body causes excessive and abnormally high amounts of lipids to accumulate in the liver, bone marrow, lungs, spleen and even in the brain. Niemann-Pick Disease Type C usually occurs during the childhood stages. However, it may also manifest during infancy and adulthood. Incidence for this type of disease had been estimated to be 1 in every 150,000 individuals. Niemann-Pick Disease Type C is more common among individuals of French-Acadian descent living in Nova Scotia.
12552	Night blindness pertains to a difficulty or inability to see well at night or under poor light conditions. Also known as nyctalopia, night blidness is not a disorder in itself, but a symptom of an underlying problem such as untreated nearsightedness.
12553	Night sweats are episodes of random excessive perspiration that occurs only at night. People suffering from night sweats usually get to soak their bed clothes or beddings. It is, however not an indication of a serious illness.
12554	Night terror also known as pavor nocturnus, Night terrors are a sleep disorder in which a person quickly awakens from sleep in a terrified state.
12555	Nijmegen Breakage Syndrome or NBS is also referred to as Berlin Breakage Syndrome and Seemanova Syndrome. This condition is a rare form of disease syndrome. It is mainly characterized by chromosomal instability. Probable reason could be as a result of an abnormality or clinical defect in the Double Holliday junction DNA repair mechanism. Nijmegen Breakage Syndrome is usually manifested by several distinctive characteristics. Major clinical presentation includes microcephaly, distinct appearance and expression of the face, shortness in stature, immunodeficiency and sensitivity to radiation. Patients who are diagnosed with NBS are found to have an increased risk of having lymphoid malignancy. The name, Nijmegen Breakage Syndrome, was derived from the Dutch city, Nijmegen which was where the first description of this disease had been established. Majority of the people afflicted with NBS have origins from the West Slavic. A significant percentage live in Poland.
12556	Nil disease, also known as minimal change disease, is a kidney illness that affects young children. This illness also affects the blood's hemoglobin levels resulting to abnormalities in the blood serum.
12557	Nocardiosis is an infectious disease which affects the lungs or the whole body. Affectation of the lungs is termed as Pulmonary Nocardiosis while affectation of the entire body is referred to as Systemic Nocardiosis. Nocardiosis is caused primarily of an infection by bacterium of the genus Nocardia. The common forms are Nocardia asteroides and Nocardia brasiliensis. Men are more commonly affected particularly those whose immune systems are already compromised. Among patients afflicted with brain infection, rate of mortality goes beyond 80%. Among the other forms, mortality rate is at 50% even with therapy.
12558	Nocturia pertains to a condition characterized by excessive urination at night. Patients with nocturia constantly need to get up during the night to urinate and may thus suffer from sleep distortions. While it can occur in children and younger adults, nocturia more typically affects the elderly.
12559	Nocturnal Enuresis also known as bedwetting is involuntary urination while asleep after the age at which bladder control would normally be anticipated. Primary Nocturnal Enuresis (PNE) is during a child has not yet stayed dry on a regular basis. Secondary Nocturnal Enuresis is when a child or adult starts wetting again after having stayed dry.
12560	Thyroid Nodules is a condition whereby there is one or more nodules that develop within the person's gland. It is usually a water-filled lump and is usually noncancerous but develops and become large to press on the person's windpipe.
12561	Noise Induced Deafness may be a full or partial reduction in the ability to determine and understand sounds. This condition is usually caused by a wide range of environmental factors. Sound waves have varying frequencies and amplitudes. A person who has lost his ability to detect some frequencies and some low-amplitude sounds which should normally be detected is a characteristic of this condition. Whenever humans are exposed to harmful noise and sounds that are too loud and last a long time, the sensitive structures found in the inner ear may be damaged thereby causing noise-induced hearing loss (NIHL) or Noise Induced Deafness. These sensitive structures which are also called hair cells, are small sensory cells found in the inner ear. They convert sound energy into electrical signals which travel towards the brain. Once the hair cells are damaged, they cannot grow back.
12562	Noma came from the Greek term numein which means to devour. This condition is also referred to as Cancrum Oris or Gangrenous Stomatitis. Noma is a form of gangrenous disease which leads to destruction of the tissues of the face. Commonly affected areas are the cheeks and mouth. Noma has significantly high rates of morbidity and mortality. A rough estimate of 80% had been reported. Children under the age of 12 years who are living in the poor countries of Africa have high predisposition to this disease. Asian children as well as several countries within South America also present a certain degree of predisposition. Majority of the children who develop Noma are around the ages 2 to 6 years old. An estimated number of 500,000 individuals had developed this disease according to the WHO. 100,000 new cases arise every year.
12563	Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma or NHL is characterized by a certain group of cancers which arise from lymphocytes. NHL has distinctive clinical presentation from Hodgkin Lymphoma based on its pathology and epidemiology. It is also different from Hodgkin Lymphoma based on the commonly involved sites, clinical behavior and medical treatment. Diseases associated with non-Hodgkin Lymphomas presents diversity. The course of the diseases varies as well as the treatments. Prognoses for recovery among patients are also variable. Non-Hodgkin lymphoma usually develops in the spleen, lymph nodes and tonsils or in other organs which are related to the lymphatic system. Majority of the cases initially present as infiltration of lymph nodes. However, there are some subtypes which are restricted to other organs of the lymphatic system.
12564	Non-ketotic Hyperglycinemia (NKH) more commonly known as Glycine encephalopathy is an autosomal recessive metabolic disorder. Clinical presentation shows abnormally high level of Glycine which is a form of amino acid. This works as a neurotransmitter or chemical messenger in the brain. Primary cause of non-ketotic hyperglycinemia is insufficient amounts of the enzyme which normally metabolizes the amino acid, glycine, in the body. Shortage or lack of this enzyme allows abnormally high levels of glycine to accumulate in the organs and tissues. Particularly affected is the brain which leads to complicated medical problems.
12565	The non-small cell lung cancers are taken as one group because their prognoses for recovery and treatments are basically the same. There are three main sub-types of non-small cell lung cancer namely adenocarcinoma, squamous cell lung carcinoma and large cell lung carcinoma. Squamous cell lung carcinoma accounts for 31.1% of the cases. This type of non-small cell lung carcinoma usually starts in close proximity to central bronchus. Development of cavities and necrotic tissues within the center of the cancer site is a major and common finding. Squamous cell lung cancers which are well-differentiated often develop and spread at a slower pace compared to other cancer types. Adenocarcinoma accounts for 29.4% of the cases. This type usually starts in peripheral lung tissue. Majority of the cases are related to smoking. Adenocarcinoma is the most common type of lung cancer among non-smokers. Bronchioloalveolar carcinoma is another subtype. Women who are non-smokers are more predisposed to this cancer form and responses to treatment vary. Large cell lung carcinoma accounts for 10.7% of lung cancers. This type grows rapidly and develops near the lung surface. It is poorly differentiated most of the time and has a tendency to metastasize during its early stages.
12566	Non-Specific Urethritis (shortened as NSU) is a type of urethritis characterized by inflammation of the urethra that cannot be attributed to Chlamydia, gonorrhea, or any infectious cause. Most cases of non-specific urethritis are sexually transmitted, while some have no evidence of infections at all.
12567	Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease or NAFLD for brevity, is a medical condition where there is are presence of conditions involving the liver of the person who does not drink or just drink a little. Liver scarring and liver damaging inflammation are the result of a type of NAFLD which is called th e Nonalcoholic Steatohepatitis or NASH.
12568	It is a common "silent" liver disease. It is similar to alcoholic liver disease but it occurs in individuals who drink little or no alcohol. Its distinctive feature is fat in the liver with swelling and injury. Most individuals do not feel or are not aware that they have a problem in the liver.
12569	Nonallergic Rhinitis otherwise known as the Vasomotor Rhinitis is a medical condition where there is a continuous and chronic runny nose. It is a condition brought about when the lining of the nose swells as a result of an expanding blood vessels thereby causing the nose to be congested.
12570	Nonischemic Priapism is a medical condition where there is a sustained and frequently painful erection that is not associated with sexual stimulation. In Nonischemic Priapism the blood that usually fills the penis does not subside or drain from the penile shaft upon orgasm.
12571	Nontropical Sprue otherwise known as the Celiac sprue, is a condition triggered by consumption of the protein gluten whereby the person's immune reaction occurs in the small intestine which results in the damage to the surface of the small intestine and to the inability to take nutrients found in food. Thus, it is an enteropathy which is usually a gluten-sensitive disease which nontropical sprue and gluten-sensitive enteropathy, celiac disease occurs in people who have a susceptibility to gluten intolerance
12572	Nonulcer Stomach Pain is a medical condition where there is a disorder of the uppe gastrointestinal system which can cause that of the symptoms of peptic ulcer. It is thus, characterized by a gnawing and discomfort in the upper abdomen but there is absence of ulcer and other problem in the digestive system.
12573	Noonan Syndrome or NS is classified as a relatively common genetic disease. It is a congenital condition affecting both the male and the female. It was formerly considered as the male counterpart of Turner's syndrome. Despite this comparison, the genetic causes of Noonan syndrome are distinct from Turner syndrome. The clinical presentation of Noonan syndrome is primarily congenital heart malformation, problems with learning, indented chest, short stature, impairment of blood clotting and characteristically configured features of the face. Noonan syndrome acquired its name from Dr. Jacqueline Noonan. Approximately 1 in every 1,000 and 1 in every 2,500 children all over the world are born with this condition. In fact, it is considered as one of the most common genetic diseases with close relation to congenital heart disease with the same occurrence with that of Down syndrome.
12574	Normal pressure hydrocephalus (NPH) is a chronic increase of fluids in the brain due to dysfunctional glands that produce cerebrospinal fluids.
12575	Norovirus Infections is an infection cause by noroviruses. The infection is an intestinal flu-like illness where it usually occurs in enclosed places such as the hospitals and nursing homes.
12576	Norrie Disease is a disorder that affects the eye often leading to blindness. Some patients suffer in hearing loss, while others may be mentally challenged.
12577	Nose foreign body pertains to the presence of an object not normally present in the nose or the nasal cavity. Common objects found inside the nasal cavity include tissue paper, food material, toys, beads, and rocks.
12578	Nose inflammation, or rhinitis, is the swelling of the nose characterized by difficulty in breathing, watery discharge from the nose, and nasal congestion.
12579	Nosebleeds pertain to bleeding coming from the nose commonly occurring in children between 2-10 years of age. Nosebleeds are also known medically as epistaxis.
12580	Nummular eczematous dermatitis, or nummular eczema, is a term used to describe an itchy rash that develops patches on the skin. The sores grow bigger as time goes by, and soon becomes a chronic condition.
12581	A mild or severe allergic reaction to nuts.
12582	Nyctophobia is the unreasonable fear of the dark.
12583	Nymphomania is a compulsive sexual behavior which is also called hypersexuality or erotomania where there is the constant and overwhelming need or urge to have sex. It is an impulse control disorder where a person cannot resist the temptation to perform sexual intercourse with another person. It is said referred to by many as the sexual addiction.
12584	Nystagmus is involuntary eye movement that can be part of either the vestibulo-ocular reflex (VOR) or a pathological process. It is characterized by alternating smooth pursuit in one direction and saccadic movement in other direction.
12585	Obesity is a clinical weight condition in which the body has 20 percent more weight than the recommended weight relative the an individual's height, which results in such illness as diabetes and heart disease.
12586	Obesity in children is a form of malnutrition in which a child becomes extremely overweight. Obesity can be the cause of problems in maintaining balance as well as growth development of the physical and internal organs of child's body.
12587	Obsessive-compulsive disorder is a psychiatric anxiety disorder. Individuals with this disorder have thoughts that are obsessive, distressing, intrusive, related with compulsions to neutralize their obsessions.
12588	Obstetric fistula or vaginal fistula is a severe medical condition in which a fistula (hole) develops between the rectum and vagina or between the bladder and vagina after severe or failed childbirth, when adequate medical care is not available.
12589	Obstipation is a term used to describe a severe form of constipation resulting from an obstruction or blockage in the intestines.
12590	Obstructive sleep apnea a sleeping disorder in which a sleeping person's breathing is obstructed by a physical block to the airflow despite the effort to breathe.
12591	Occipital horn syndrome is characterized by a deficiency in biliary copper excretion causing deformations in the skeleton.
12592	Occipital neuralgia is a distinct form of headache marked by throbbing, piercing, or chronic pain occurring in the back of the head, upper neck, and behind the ears, usually on only one side of the head.
12593	Occupational asthma is a type of asthma caused by specific working conditions that results in a limited airflow to the lungs or excessive response of the airway.
12594	Osteochondritis dissecans is a condition of having a painful and inflamed loose joint. The formation of a lesion within the cartilage gives rise to a secondary inflammation.
12595	The Ochoa syndrome is a congenital syndrome in which an individual has inverted facial expressions. It is also referred to as urofacial syndrome or hydronephrosis with peculiar facial expression associated with obstructive disease of the urinary tract.
12596	Ochronosis is a metabolic disorder causing excessive homogentisic acid in the body. The face, skeletal system, cardiovascular system, respiratory system, urinary system and skin show adverse pigmentation, calcification, and inflammation.
12597	Ocular albinism is a condition in which the iris lacks melanin pigmentation. Persons with ocular albinism inherit their condition from parents. These patients however, retain their normal or near-normal skin and hair color.
12598	Ocular Herpes pertains to a recurrent herpes infection affecting the eye, potentially causing corneal blindness.
12599	Ocular histoplasmosis syndrome pertains to an eye disease that causes vision loss due to the spread of fungal spores from the lungs to the eye, where they tend to lodge in a layer of blood vessels known as the choroids, which primarily supplies blood and nutrients to the retina. There, these spores cause the growth of fragile, abnormal blood vessels under the retina, consequently forming a lesion called choroidal neovascularization (CNV).
12600	Ocular Melanoma is a condition which occurs in the uvea or the vascular layer of the eye between the retina and the sclera or the white of the eye. It may occur in in the front part of the uvea or the iris and ciliary body or in the choroid layer or the back part of the uvea.
12601	Ocular motility disorders are disorders due to the malfunction of the eye's sensory-motor mechanism leading to a faulty alignment of the eyes or impairment of vision.
12602	Ocular toxoplasmosis is a disease of the retina due to an intracellular protozoan parasite called Toxoplasma gondii.
12603	Oculo dento digital dysplasia is a rare genetic condition resulting in individuals with small eyes, underdeveloped teeth. They also have abnormal fourth and fifth fingers. The condition is also referred to as oculo-dento-digital syndrome, oculodentodigital dysplasia, and oculodentoosseous dysplasia.
12604	Oculodentodigital syndrome is a rare genetic condition resulting in individuals with small eyes, underdeveloped teeth. They also have abnormal fourth and fifth fingers. The condition is also referred to as oculo-dento-digital syndrome, oculodentodigital dysplasia, and oculodentoosseous dysplasia.
12605	Oculocerebrorenal syndrome is a congenital disorder wherein the affected individual has hydrophthalmia, cataracts, mental retardation, aminoaciduria, reduced renal ammonia production, and vitamin D-resistant rickets. It is also called Lowe syndrome.
12606	Oculocutaneous albinism is a condition resulting in the lack of pigmentation in the eyes, skin and hair. Other affected individuals may show an almost-normal level of pigmentation. Oculocutaneous albinism type 1 has the least amount of pigment.
12607	Oculocutaneous albinism is a condition resulting in the lack of pigmentation in the eyes, skin and hair. Other affected individuals may show an almost-normal level of pigmentation. Oculocutaneous albinism type 2 is the most common type of albinism due to a mutation of the P gene.
12608	Oculocutaneous albinism is a condition resulting in the lack of pigmentation in the eyes, skin and hair. Other affected individuals may show an almost-normal level of pigmentation. Oculocutaneous albinism type 3 is the result of tyrosinase-related protein-1 gene mutation.
12609	Tyrosinase-positive oculocutaneous albinism is a disorder associated poor visual acuity, hypopigmentation of the iris with transillumination defects, macular hypoplasia, nystagmus, and hypopigmented fundus. The condition shows progressive increased pigmentation, as they are bale to produce melanin.
12610	Oculomelic amyoplasia is a genetic disorder resulting in limb contractures from birth and eye abnormalities.
12611	Oculopharyngeal dystrophy, which is also called oculopharyngeal muscular dystrophy, is a condition characterized by deformed eyelids, speech impediment, and swallowing difficulty due to dystrophy of the pharynx.
12612	The odontoma is a benign tumor usually associated with an unerupted tooth.
12613	Odontophobia is commonly referred to as dental phobia, which is an irrational fear of dentists and dental procedures.
12614	Odynophobia or algophobia is an extreme and abnormal fear of pain.
12615	Oedema, or edema, is the excess fluid that accumulates in tissues and organs in the different parts of the body, except for the bones. The accumulation of fluids often causes major system failures that lead to death.
12616	Ogilvie syndrome is found in severely ill patients with a serious acute pseudo-obstruction and dilation of the colon that has no mechanical obstruction .
12617	Ohtahara syndrome pertains to a neurological disorder characterized by epileptic seizures which affect newborn infants, usually within the first 3 months of life and more commonly within the first 10 days.
12618	Oikophobia, which is also known as Domatophobia is the irrational fear of houses, in a home environment, or in a house.
12619	Olfactophobia is also known as osmophobia, which is the fear of smell.
12620	Oligodendroglioma pertains to a rare brain tumor that grows from the cells that encompass the supportive connective tissue around the nerve cells of the brain. Oligodendroglioma more commonly develops in adults than in children, and more commonly in men than in women.
12621	Oligohydramnios is a condition characterized by a deficiency in the amount of amniotic fluid present in the gestational sac during pregnancy.
12622	Oligospermia pertains to a deficiency of sperms in the semen. Also known as oligozoospermatism, this condition affects male fertility, but, in some cases, may only be temporary.
12623	Olivopontocerebellar atrophy applies to two hereditary disorders: Fickler-Winkler type OPCA, which characterized by autosomal recessive inheritance and OPCA with dementia and extrapyramidal signs, which is characterized by autosomal dominant inheritance.
12624	Ollier disease is a non-hereditary abnormality that is commonly seen during childhood. It consists of multiple endochromas that cause the bones to be deformed. It is also known as enchodromatosis.
12625	Omenn syndrome is a severe combined immunodeficiency associated with mutations in the recombination activating genes, affecting both B-cells and T-cells.
12626	Omsk Hemorrhagic Fever is a very contagious infection caused by the Omsk Hemorrhagic Fever Virus.
12627	Onchocerciasis is an infectious condition in which slender threadlike roundworms invade and are deposited under the skin or in some cases, the eyes.
12628	An oncocytoma is an epithelial tumor in the kidney or salivary gland. These tumors are composed of oncocytes, which are special cells.
12629	Ondine's Curse is a respiratory disorder which results in episodes of respiratory arrest during sleep. It is a serious disorder and fatal if not treated. The disorder is also referred to as congenital central hypoventilation syndrome or primary alveolar hypoventilation.
12630	Oneirophobia is a person's unwarranted fear of dreams.
12631	Onychogryphosis is a nail deformation characterized by the thickening of a toenail at the point where the nail curves, giving it a somewhat claw-like appearance. Onychogryphosis typically affects the big toe nail.
12632	Onychomycosis means fungal infection of the nail. It is the very common disease of the nails and constitutes about a half of all nail abnormalities. This condition can affect toe- or fingernails, but toenail infections are particularly common. The prevalence of onychomycosis is about 6-8% in the adult population. Onychomycosis caused by dermatophytes is also called as tinea unguium (tinea of the nails).
12633	Oophoritis is a condition characterized by inflammation of either one or both ovaries, usually occurring alongside an infection and possibly affecting female fertility.
12634	Open-angle glaucoma pertains to a relatively common, chronic, slowly progressing form of glaucoma that usually affects both eyes. Glaucoma pertains to a group of eye conditions characterized by damage to the nerve at the back of the eye, usually due to increased pressure within the eye, and ultimately resulting in vision loss. Open-angle glaucoma is the most common of all types of glaucoma, and tends to develop very slowly. The term ?open-angle? is used in reference to the relatively normal angle between the iris and the sclera; normal in contrast to other forms of glaucoma.
12635	Ophthalmitis is a general term encompassing all types of eye inflammation. However, the term is more commonly used in the context of sympathetic ophthalmitis or neonatal ophthalmitis.
12636	The Opitz syndrome is a problematic developmental condition that involves various parts of the body. It is mainly characterized by bizarre facial features, abnormally small size of the head, learning disabilities and behavioral problems.
12637	An opportunistic infection is caused by pathogens in an unhealthy immune system, which presents the "opportunity" for the pathogen to infect.
12638	Oppositional defiant disorder is an abnormal pattern of disobedient, hostile, and defiant behavior toward authority figures.
12638	Oppositional defiant disorder is a controversial psychiatric category listed in the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders where it is described as an ongoing pattern of disobedient, hostile, and defiant behavior toward authority figures which goes beyond the bounds of normal childhood behavior.
12639	Opththalmoplegia pertains an eye abnormality characterized by the paralysis of eye muscles. It may also be spelled alternatively as opththalmoplegia.
12640	Optic atrophy is the loss of some or most of the fibers of the optic nerve.
12641	Optic atrophy, autosomal dominant is also called dominant optic atrophy, Kjer optic atrophy, or Kjer's autosomal dominant optic atrophy. It is a condition that affects the optic nerves of both eyes reducing a person's vision and may lead to blindness.
12642	Optic disc drusen is a condition in which globules of mucoproteins and mucopolysaccharides progressively harden in the optic disc. This condition is associated with vision loss of varying degree.
12643	Optic neuritis is an inflammation of the optic nerve, which may cause a complete or partial loss of vision. It is sometimes referred to as retrobulbar neuritis.
12644	Oral and throat cancer is a type of cancer affecting the mouth, lips, tongue, gums, salivary glands, and a portion of the throat behind the mouth. It is also alternatively called oropharyngeal cancer.
12645	Oral cancer is any cancerous tissue growth located in the mouth. It could arise as a primary lesion originating in any of the oral tissues, by metastasis from a distant site of origin, or by extension from a neighboring anatomic structure, such as the nasal cavity or the maxillary sinus.
12646	Oral candidiasis pertains to a yeast fungus (Candida albicans) infection in the mouth's mucous membranes.
12647	Leukoplakia is an adherent white plaques or patches on the mucous membranes of the mouth including the tongue.
12648	Oral lichen planus is a condition of inflammation in the mouth lining. The inflammation may also occur inside the cheeks and may affect other parts of the mouth as well as the throat.
12649	Oral thrush is a medical condition whereby there is an unusual accumulation of Candida Albicians in the lining of the mouth. It usually manifests as lesions in the tongue and in inner cheeks.
12650	Orchitis is the medical inflammation where there is the inflammation of one or both testicles. It is usually connected to mumps.
12651	Orf is described as a viral disease that commonly infects sheep and goats. It can be easily acquired by humans through direct contact of infected animals or contaminated fomites. It was also reported that reindeers have caused similar cuts to humans.
12651	Orf pertains to an exanthemous zoonotic disease caused by a viral skin virus, which primarily affects sheep and goats, but may also be transmitted to humans. The word ?orf? itself is derived from an Old English term that means ?rough?. It is also alternatively known as pustular dermatitis (CPD), contagious ecthyma, thistle disease, sore mouth, or scabby mouth.
12652	Organic brain syndrome refers to various acute and chronic physical disorders impairing mental function.
12653	Ornithosis is a zoonotic infectious disease also known as psittacosis, parrot disease, and parrot fever.
12654	Oropharyngeal cancer pertains to types of carcinomas occurring in the mouth, lips, tongue, gums, salivary glands, as well as parts of the throat located behind the stomach. It is also alternatively known as oral and throat cancer.
12655	Orotic aciduria is the excessive excretion of orotic acid in the urine.
12656	Orthorexia nervosa is a term coined by Steven Bratman, a Colorado MD, to denote an eating disorder characterized by a fixation on eating what the sufferer considers to be healthful food, which can ultimately lead to early death.
12657	Orthostatic hypotension otherwise known as the postural hypotension is a type of low blood pressure which usually occurs after a prolong lying or sitting down.
12658	Orthostatic intolerance is a disorder of the autonomic nervous system, which occurs when a person stands up.
12659	Osgood-Schlatter disease is a condition in which a growth plate at the tibial tuberosity has inflamed.
12660	Osteitis deformans is also known as Paget's disease. It is a chronic disorder that typically results in enlarged and deformed bones.
12661	Osteoarthritis is medically identified as a form of degenerative joint disease. This is found to be the most common type of arthritis. Osteoarthritis typically occurs when joint cartilage wears down over time. Osteoarthritis may affect any joint in the body. However, the most common areas ate the joints located in the hands, knees, hips and spine. Osteoarthritis normally affects just a single joint. Although there are some cases, such as found in finger arthritis that a number of joints are affected. Osteoarthritis will gradually worsen with time. There is still no known cure available today. However, there are available treatments that can help manage and relieve pain.
12662	Osteochondritis describes a special variety of joint diseases involving the abnormality in the cartilage and/or bone development. OCD typically affects the elbows, shoulders, or knees. This is normally brought about by joint degeneration due to wear and tear.
12663	Osteochondritis dissecans is a medical condition that is often a result from the loss of supply of blood to a certain area of the bone located just beneath the joint surface. Among the most affected areas are the, although it is also known to manifest in other areas such as the ankle and elbow. Although this condition is largely associated with the aging process, there is a juvenile form of osteochondritis dissecans. Early diagnosis and treatment is highly important to effectively minimize risks of long-term disability. The affected bone and its covering of cartilage may stay in place and may not cause any symptoms. Or a fragment may gradually loosen and cause pain.
12664	Osteochondroses (singular form: osteochondrosis) pertain to a group of diseases primarily affecting children and adolescents in which necrosis or localized tissue death occurs, often followed by spontaneous regeneration of healthy bone tissue.
12665	Osteochrondroma, or more commonly known as osteocartilaginous exostoses, is known as the overgrowth of the bone and cartilage located near the end of the bone of the growth plate. Such type of overgrowth usually occurs in bones where the cartilage will eventually form bone. Most of the commonly affected areas are the long bones of the leg, the pelvis, as well as the scapula.
12666	Osteogenesis imperfecta (OI) is a rare genetic disorder that is characterized by the tendency of the bones to break easily, often with little or possibly no apparent cause. There is a classification system for the different types of OI. This is designed to help describe how severely a patient with OI is affected.
12667	Osteogenic sarcoma is also called asosteosarcoma and is identified as one of the most common types of cancer of the bones found in children. This medical condition is mostly found in lone bones such as the legs, pelvis and arm bones. This cancer has also been found to be more prevalent among male patients than females. The cancer cells can rapidly spread to other areas of the body and like any other cancer, it is fatal without any medical intervention.
12668	Osteoglophonic dwarfism is a rare form of dwarfism that is characterized by some premature fusion of skull bones, with short limbs as well as digits. Manifestations include facial abnormalities along wiyj bone development anomalies
12669	Osteoid Osteoma pertains to a type of benign bone tumor often appearing in the long bones of the lower extremities. It most commonly affects the thighbone or femur, although it can also affect the hand bones and sometimes the lower part of the spine. Osteoid Osteoma typically affects teenagers and young adults.
12670	Osteoma is a generic term pertaining to a benign tumor growing in the bone. There are several types of osteoma, each occurring in a bone in a different area of the body.
12671	Osteomalacia is a medical condition that only affects adults. Among the children the same condition is known as rickets. Osteomalacia primarily affects the bones as well ass the muscles. This is mainly triggered by the deficiency mineral found in the bones that results to increased risks of pain and fractures.
12672	Osteomyelitis is a medical condition that is caused by the inflammation or abnormal swelling of bone tissue. This is mainly caused by an infection of an infection. This disease may occur on both adults and children for different reasons.
12673	Osteonecrosis is rare type of disease that often leads to the inadequate supply of the blood in the patient's bone tissue. As any living tissue, the bone will require a certain quantity of blood to be able to function properly. Without the adequate supply of blood, this condition lead to bone tissue death.
12674	Osteopenia is a condition where bone mineral density is lower than normal. It is considered by most doctors to be a precursor to osteoporosis. Moreover, not every person diagnosed with osteopenia will develop osteoporosis. Fractures usually experienced in the hip, spine, and wrist.
12675	Osteopetrosis is the thickening of the bones. These results to an abnormal denseness of the bone that is mainly due to inherited bone resorption, a process under which the old bones breaks bone to be replaced by new ones.
12676	Osteophytes, otherwise known as bone spurs, are bony projections that develop along the edges of bones. They usually form in the joints, but can also be found where ligaments and tendons connect with bone. Bone spurs are not themselves painful, but may cause pain, when it rubs against nearby nerves and bones.
12677	Osteopoikilosis is known as the asymptomatic osteosclerotic dysplasia that can be either be genetic or occur sporadically.
12678	Osteoporosis is a bone condition that is characterized by the gradual loss of the normal bone density that will result to the fragility of the bone. Osteoporosis may often lead to abnormality of the porous bone.
12679	Osteosarcoma is a disease characterized by the growth of cancer cells in the bone, commonly affecting adolescents and young adults. While it may occur in any part of the body, a majority of the cases involve a tumor found around the knee. It is alternatively known as ?osteogenic sarcoma?, which literally translates to ?bone forming cancer?.
12680	Osteosclerosis is a very rare disorder that is characterized primarily by an abnormal increase in the bone density. This means as the old bone is not resorbed and is not replaced with a new bone. This is why it is also known as the marble bone disease.
12681	Otitis - or more appropriately, otitis media - pertains to an infection or inflammation of the ear, which may affect either the inner or outer ear. Otitis is more common in young children.
12682	An infection of the outer ear and ear canal resulting from the growth of bacteria and fungi which may come from contaminated water or from objects placed in the ear. It is also known as "swimmer's ear" or external otitis.
12683	Otitis media is inflammation of the middle ear, or middle ear infection (the word otitis is Latin and it means "inflammation of the ear", and media means middle.
12684	Otosclerosis is defined as a genetically-mediated metabolic bone disoder that primarily affects the otic capsule and the ossicles. The mode of inheritance of this disease is autosomal dominant, and more women are prone to be a victim of this disease than men. Otosclerosis is largely associated with hearing loss that typically develops during the third decade of the patient's life.
12685	Otospondylomegaepiphyseal dysplasia, or otherwise known as OSMED is categorized as a genetic disorder of the bone growth. This disorder often results in serious skeletal abnormalities, accompanied by severe hearing loss as well as distinctive facial features. People suffering from this disease often experience pain on the joints and back and are only capable of limited joint movement.
12686	Ovarian cancer is one of the most common form of cancer found in women. This is brought about by the abnormal overproduction of ovarian and the development of tumors that may affect one or both or the ovaries. The rate of survival is critically dependent on earaly detection and expert medical intervention.
12687	Ovarian cysts are fluid-filled sacs or pockets within or on the surface of an ovary. The ovaries are two organs both about the size and shape of an almond located on each side of your uterus. Eggs (ova) develop and mature in the ovaries and are released in monthly cycles during the childbearing years.
12688	Ovarian insufficiency is a deficiency of the needed functions of the ovaries. These dysfunctions may cause complications such as amenorrhea, oligomenorrhea, and uterine bleeding. It may also lead to sterility among females.
12689	Overactive bladder, sometimes called an irritable bladder, is a problem with bladder function which results in a sudden urge to urinate which is difficult to suppress.
12690	Overactive thyroid disease, otherwise known as hyperthyroidism, is a condition which occurs when the thyroid gland produces too much of the hormone thyroxine, resulting to the significant acceleration of the body's metabolism.
12691	Occupational overuse syndrome, also known as repetitive stress syndrome, is a behavioral disorder wherein one mechanically works his occupational habits despite changes in his work environment. This can lead to muscle, tendon and nerve injuries in the long run.
12692	Overwhelming post-splenectomy infection or OPSI is known as the rapidly fatal septicaemia infection that is brought about by the absence of the protection of the spleen against certain types of bacteria. Most patients who either have a non-functional or absent spleens can die in a few hours if exposed by uncommon infections. However, this medical condition can be prevented with the use of antibiotics and vaccinations.
12693	Oxyphil cell carcinoma, more commonly known as Hurthle cell cancer (HCC) is a rare form of cancer affecting the thyroid gland.
12694	Pachydermoperiostosis is categorized as a rare disorder that is primarily characterized by clubbing of the fingers, excessive sweating and thickening of the skin of the face. It medical condition typically appears during early childhood or adolescence, and progresses slowly within the next ten year or so.
12695	Pachygyria is defined as a congenital malformation affecting the cerebral hemisphere. This often results in the unusually thick convolutions that form in the patient's cerebral cortex. Typically, most children with this medical condition may also suffer from developmental delay as well as seizures
12696	The Pacman syndrome is categorized as a rare syndrome that is characterized by the abnormal development of the bone that primarily affects the long bones as well lower spine of the patient.
12697	Peripheral artery disease, also known as peripheral arterial disease, is a problem in the circulatory system wherein there is a reduction in the blood flow to the limbs because of narrowed arteries.
12698	Paget's disease is a medical disease that primarily affects the bone. This condition affects the normal processes of the bones, disrupting the process of growth and renewal. Paget's disease usually affects the skull, spine and pelvic bone causing deformities, pain and fractures.
12699	Paget's disease of the breast is identified as a highly rare form of breast cancer. This disease accounts of less than five percent of the breast cancers. The disease usually originates in the breast ducts and develops to the nipple's skin and the areola.
12700	Paget's disease type 1 is the malfunction in the normal process of the remodeling of the human bones. In normal cases, the bone breaks down and growth and rebuild gradually. However, in the case of Paget's disease, this gradual process is somehow altered , where the replacement bone is porous and soft.
12701	Painful Bladder Syndrome otherwise known as the interstitial cystitis in medicine is a condition which is characterized by a recurring pain in the bladder as well as in the surrounding pelvic region.
12702	Painful intercourse, otherwise known as the dyspareunia in medical terms, is a recurring genital pain occurring before, during or after sexual intercourse.
12703	A painful limb is a degenerative state of a limb brought about by certain causes; it can be due to an infection such as gangrene, or environmental events such as frostbites, accidents, as well as arteriosclerosis. As the affected limb further degenerates, the only form of treatment is that of surgical replacement or amputation.
12704	Palate cancer pertains to a rare type of cancer affecting the roof of the mouth. The word ?palate? pertains to the roof of the mouth which has a bony portion in the front (this part is called ?hard palate?) and a muscular portion at the back (this is known as the ?soft palate?).
12705	Paleness is the dull pigmenting of the skin. This condition is brought about by different reasons, most common of which is iron deficiency.
12706	Palindromic rheumatism is a very rare disorder that involbes the periodic inflammation of the joints.
12707	Pallister Killian mosaic syndrome is a very rare disease that affects humans. It consists of the development of the isochromosome 12p, which has two abnormally small legs.
12708	Pallister-Hall syndrome is medical disorder that primarily affects the natural development of several parts of the body. Most people suffering this condition may have extra fingers on the toes and fingers as well as skin between the hands and feet. Other patients may suffer severe malformations.
12709	Pallister-Killian syndrome is very rare and sporadic cytogenetic abnormality. This medical condition was first described in the three adults by Pallister way back in 1977. The information about this disease is still largely unknown other than the medical belief that it is causes by an autosomal tetrasomy in humans.
12710	Palmoplantar hyperhidrosis is condition characterized by the excessive sweating of the hands and feet. This can be an utterly annoying in one's social and professional environment, since excessive sweating may reduce one's efficiency at work due to lack of precision of the instrument s he handles, or when dealing with his peers.
12711	Keratoderma is actually a term that literally means a marked skin thickening. On the other hand, Palmoplantar refers to the skin located on the soles of the feet as well as the palms of the hands. More often than not, this medical condition can be a condition of an internal abnormality.
12712	Palpitation pertains to an abnormal awareness of one's own heartbeat; be it too slow, too fast, irregular, or beating at its normal frequency. The awareness is abnormal to the extent that the rhythm of one's heart interrupts the person's thoughts and consciousness.
12713	Doctors often use the medical term cerebral palsy to refer to a number of neurological disorders that may manifest in infancy or in early childhood. This medical condition affects the bodily movements as well as the muscle coordination. However, this is not progressive but may cause abnormalities that greatly affect the patient's quality of life.
12714	Pancreas divisum is categorized as a common congenital anomaly that affects the pancreatic ducts. This affects the natural digestion of food, as ezymes are primarily produced in the pancreas.
12715	Pancreatic cancer usually develops in the pancreas tissues. The pancreas are responsible for secreting enzymes that will aid in the digestion as well as regulate hormones that would help regulate sugar.
12716	Pancreatic cysts are often diagnosed now than it is so in the past years. However, this is not due to the fact the more people have this disease but mainly due to the advancements in imaging technology that detects the presence of a pancreatic cyst. Pancreatic cysts are mostly not cancerous, but it is often difficult to determine which cysts is malignant or benign.
12717	There are a number of diseases that is covered by pancreatic diseases and most of these conditions is a result of underlying pancreatic and other internal problems. This may include pancreatic cancer, acute pancreatitis, hereditary forms, and endocrine tumors of the pancreas. The symptoms, causes, treatment and diagnosis of the disease greatly differ depending on the underlying nature if the condition
12718	Pancreatic Islet Cell Neoplasms develop into two different categories: the nonfunctional and functional varieties. However, most cases of this medical condition are found functional, which means the neoplasms secrete hormonal products into the patient's bloodstream, leading to the development of more recognizable symptoms.
12719	A pancreatic islet cell tumor is one of the rather uncommon forms of tumor of the pancreas. This medical condition arises from a certain cell that is in the pancreas, which is referred to as islet cell. Generally, islet cells are known to produce insulin hormones,
12720	Pancreatitis is an inflammation of pancreas. The pancreas is a big gland behind the stomach and just close to the duodenum.
12721	Pancreatoblastoma is also known as the infantile form of pancreatic carcinoma. This medical condition is considered to be one of the extremely rare types of pancreatic tumor that typically develops during early childhood. In comparison to all other carcinomas, PB has been known to be less aggressive in infants as well as children than the cases found in adult.
12722	PANDAS is actually the abbreviation of the medical condition called Pediatric Autoimmune Neuropsychiatric Disorders Associated that comes with Streptococcal Infections. This term is often used to describe a certain subset of children who have Obsessive Compulsive Disorder (OCD) as well as tic syndrome that display the symptoms of scarlet fever and strep throat.
12723	Hypopituitarism is a medical disorder characterized by the failure of the pituitary gland to produce a single or more of hormones, or the inability to produce enough. The pituitary gland secretes certain hormones that greatly influence almost all parts of the human body. This is the reason why in hypopituitarism affects any number of the normal bodily routines such as blood pressure, growth and reproduction.
12724	A panic attack is characterized by the sudden episode of an intense fear that would usually develop with real or apparent reason, triggering some severe physical reactions. Panic attacks can usually be frightening since patients often feel loss of control, increased possibility pr heart attacks or can even cause death.
12725	Panic attack is an anxiety disorder that is often characterized by the sudden and intense fear that appears to have no reason and causes severe physical reactions.
12726	Panic disorder is the medical term for a psychiatric condition characterized by recurring panic attacks in combination with significant behavioral change or at least a month of ongoing worry about the implications or concern about having other attacks.
12727	Panniculitis is characterized as the inflammation of the subcutaneous fat. Generally, human fat is divided into a number of lobules by what is known as the connective tissue septae. The septae contains the blood that supplies the lobule. The arteriole is responsible for supplying the lobule while the venules drain the septae. Panniculitis is the disorder that disrupts the supply from the arteriole or the drainage of the septae. These septae contain the blood that supply the lobule. A feeder arteriole supplies the center of the lobule while venules drain the septae. Disorders which disrupt the arterial supply lead to a lobular panniculitis while venous disorders lead to a septal panniculitis.
12728	Panophobia is known by a number of different names. But this medical condition is basically known as the fear of almost everything.
12729	Panthophobia is the fear of the suffering as well as everything.
12730	Papilledema is characterized as the swelling of the optic nerve. This is the point where the option nerve joins the eye, where the swelling causes a fluid pressure within the patient's skull or what is known as the intracranial pressure. This swelling can be due to an inflammatory illness or infection.
12731	Papilloedema is a disease characterized by optic disc swelling, often as a result of increased intracranial pressure. The characteristic swelling frequently occurs bilaterally over a period of hours to weeks. Papilloedema is also alternatively spelled as papilledema.
12732	Papilloma pertains to a benign or non-cancerous epithelial tumor that grows in an exophytical fashion in finger-like fronds. More commonly, the word ?papilla? is used in reference to the projection or pattern created by the tumor; not the tumor on an already existing papilla (such as the nipple, for instance). In this context, the word ?papilloma? pertains to infections caused by the human papillomavirus.
12733	Papular mucinosis is categorized as a highly rare skin disease. This is chronic and progressive in nature.
12734	Paracoccidioidomycosis is characterized as an infection primarily caused by the fungus Paracoccidioides brasiliensis. Paracoccidioidomycosis is a type of fungal infection that typically involves the mouth, skin, lymph nodes and throat, although symptoms sometimes appear in the patient's liver, lungs or spleen.
12735	Paragangliomas are characterized as glomus tumors that are said to be derived from paraganglion tissue or the carotid body. These tumors are typically benign and usually grow in the mastoid and middle ear.
12736	Parainfluenza viruses are paramyxoviruses, of which there are 4 distinct serotypes. Parainfluenza viruses are the second most common cause of lower respiratory tract infections in young children.
12737	Paralysis pertains to the complete loss of muscle function and/or sensation in one or more muscle groups.
12738	Paralytic ileus pertains to temporary intestinal paralysis. The paralysis itself may not necessarily be complete, but is serious enough to prevent the passage of food through the intestines, consequently causing intestinal blockage. Paralytic ileus is also alternatively known as intestinal volvulus, pseudo-obstruction-intestinal, colonic ileus, or quite simply ?ileus?.
12739	Paralytic shellfish poisoning (shortened as PSP) pertains to one of 4 known syndromes of shellfish poisoning (along with diarrheal shellfish poisoning, neurotoxic shellfish poisoning, and amnesic shellfish poisoning).
12740	Paramyotonia congenita is categorized as an autosomal dominant disorder affecting the muscle. This medical condition is characterized by paradoxical myotonia, which is a defined as myotonia , which usually appears during exercise as well as during sever exposure to the cold. During episodes, the patient may suffer from difficulty in making voluntary movements and breathing.
12741	Paranasal sinus cancer is a rare form of cancer that affects the paranasal sinuses. This condition is characterized by chronic blocking of sinuses resulting to difficulty in breathing.
12742	Paraneoplastic cerebellar degeneration is a disease that is primarily characterized by the rapid development of what is known as severe pancerebellar dysfunction. PCD is typically associated with some gynecologic tumors, lung and breast cancer, particularly those with small cell lung carcinoma as well as Hodgkin's lymphoma.
12743	Paraneoplastic syndromes pertain to a range of rare diseases that develop in some cancer patients, most commonly in cases of lung, breast, or ovarian cancer. Paraneoplastic syndromes may occur in the skin, blood, kidneys, joints, and nervous system.
12744	Paraomphalocele is a medical condition that is characterized by a very rare birth anomaly involving a particular defect in the abdominal wall. This disorder causes the contents of the abdomen to be protruded, which typically occurs near the umbilical region.
12745	Paraphilias is a medical condition that is characterized by uncontrollable impulses relating to sexual urges, fantasies and behaviors that usually involves highly unusual practices, situations and objects. This disorder can greatly impair the normal and sexual functioning of the person. Patients with paraphilias are often referred to by society as perverts because of behaviors that can possibly have serious legal and social consequences.
12746	Paraphimosis pertains to a rare condition characterized by the foreskin becoming trapped behind the glans penis. Once pulled back behind the glans penis, the foreskin cannot be brought down to its normal flaccid position covering the glans penis.
12747	Paraplegia is defined as the impairment of the sensory and/or motor function affecting the lower extremities. This medical condition is usually a result of a spinal cord injury or a congenital condition that basically affects the neural elements found in the spinal canal.
12748	Parapsoriasis is a term that refers to a group of disorders involving the skin. These are most of the time characterized as having similar characteristics to psoriasis which usualy is red, with scaly lesions. Neoplasms has also been found to also devleop from parapsoriasis just like in the case when it develops into a fatty tissue which is often cutaneous T-cell. Examples of this disorder includes Pityriasis lichenoides chronica and Pityriasis lichenoides et varioliformis acuta.
12748	Parapsoriasis is a term that refers to a group of disorders involving the skin. These are most of the time characterized as having similar characteristics to psoriasis which usualy is red, with scaly lesions. Neoplasms has also been found to also devleop from parapsoriasis just like in the case when it develops into a fatty tissue which is often cutaneous T-cell. Examples of this disorder includes Pityriasis lichenoides chronica and Pityriasis lichenoides et varioliformis acuta.
12749	Parasitophobia is also known in various other terms. These includes fear pf parasites, parasite fear, parasite phobia or phobia of parasite. These is medical o psychological condition of a person who fears or is afraid of any parasite. For a patient with this conditon, parasites could really cause them serious injuries that is why they react so profoundly at just the sight of their feared parasite.
12750	Paratyphoid fevers is also otherwise known as Enteric fevers. These composed a group of enteric illnesses often stimulated by bacterium Salmonella paratyphi strains. The three species of the Salmonellae which is known to have caused paratyphoid are Salmonella paratyphi A, S. schotmulleri, and S. paratyphi C or S. hirschfeldii. The species are usually transmitted through contact with the contaminated water and food. Paratyphoid fever is also similar to typhoid fever in some aspects but with more benign course.
12751	Parcopresis is also known as shy bowel syndrome. This is a psychological disorder of a person who doesn't seem to get to remove their bowels or defecate in other places' comfort rooms but their own where they feel a certain level of privacy.
12752	Paresthesia pertains to a sensation of prickling, tingling, or numbness on the skin with no apparent long-term physical effect. Paresthesia is known colloquially as the ?pins and needles? effect, and is usully associated with the feeling one one's limbs being ?asleep?.
12753	Parkinson's disease is likewise called Parkinson disease which is described as a degenerative disorder involving the central nervous system. Because of this, the sufferer's motor skills and way of speaking are affected. This disorder is classified under the movement disorders group. This disorder is also chronic and progressive in nature.
12754	Parkinsonism is also known in many other terms. It is known as secondary Parkinson's, atypical Parkinson's, or Parkinson's syndrome. This is a neurological syndrome often manifested by postural instability, tremor, rigidity, hypokinesia.
12755	Paronychia is also very commonly called bacterial nail infection. It is charaaterized by an inflammation of the finger or toe region called the proximal nail fold where the nail plate originated. The inflammation due to infection occurs in a short perod of time but in some cases may occur longer and at times reoccurs or chronic in nature.
12756	Parotid gland cancer pertains to a type of cancer affecting the parotid gland, the biggest of the salivary glands, which primarily produce saliva and release it into the mouth.
12757	Parotitis pertains to the inflammation of either one or both parotid glands, which are the largest of all salivary glands located on either side of the face. The parotid glands are chiefly responsible for producing saliva which they then release into the mouth.
12758	Paroxysmal cold hemoglobinuria is also termed as Donath-Landsteiner syndrome. This is a disease usually affecting humans and is characterized by abrupt presence of the hemoglobinuria in urine especially after being exposed to very cold temperatures.
12759	Paroxysmal nocturnal hemoglobinuria is a very rare disease. This often acquired and can be life-threatening for the patient. Patients with Parxysmal nocturnal hemoglobinuria is likely to suffer from anemia caused by the destruction of the red blood cells, red urine caused by the presence of hemoglobin in the urine, and also suffer thrombosis.
12760	Parry-Romberg syndrome is also sometimes called Romberg syndrome. This is a rare and incurable craniofacial disorder. The characteristics of which is slow atrophy of the muscle under the skin covering usually half of the face area usually occuring to females between the age group from 5 to 15.
12761	Partial lung collapse is described as a condition where in the lung, partially or entirely is malformed or without air. Alveoli are deflated which is different from pulmonary consolidation.
12762	Parturiphobia is also known as Tokophobia, which is the fear of childbirth or giving birth. Other terms for Partuphobia also include tocophobia. It is found normal for first time mothers to develop this fear since they find it really a life-threatening process. While it is true to be a life-threatening process some mothers really feel that they will really suffer during childbirth and aren't sure it they could withstand it.
12763	Paruresis is also known as bashful bladder, pee shyness, urophobia, shy kidney, or shy bladder syndrome. This is a type of fear in which the patient fails to urinate in the presence of other people like in public restroom. It is known to affect both the males and females.
12764	Parvovirus infection is a viral infection that usually occurs in children and characterized by the bright red rashes on the cheeks. It is also known as erythema infectiosum, the "Slapped-cheek disease" and the "fifth disease".
12765	It is an infection that is caused by a species of the bacteria genus Pasteurella that is found in animals and humans. The bacteria are carried in the mouth and respiratory tract of animals and humans.
12766	Patau syndrome is also called trisomy 13. This is an abnormality in the chromosome in which a person has an extra chromosome 13. This condition is often inherited by the sufferers.
12767	Patellar tendinitis is an injury that affects the tendon connecting your kneecap (patella) to your shinbone. The patellar tendon has a pivotal role in the way you use your legs. It helps your muscles extend your lower leg so that someone can kick a ball, push the pedals on your bicycle and jump up in the air.
12768	Patellofemoral pain syndrome is a common knee problem. If someone experiences this condition, you feel pain under and around your kneecap. The pain could get worse when you're active or when you sit for a long time. The pain could be in one or both knees.
12769	Patellofemoral syndrome is common muscular condition in which chronic pain under the kneecap is felt.
12770	Patent ductus arteriosus is heart defect evident upon birth. The condition manifests when the ductus arteriosus of the child's heart fails to close right after birth.
12771	Patent foramen ovale is a condition wherein the flap-like opening which naturally develops in the septum in the heart of an unborn, and which should close weeks or months after a baby is born, remains open.
12772	Pathological gambling is an impulse control disorder wherein the afflicted is unable to resist the urge to gamble, leading to severe consequences.
12773	Pathological stealing otherwise known as the condition of kleptomania is an impulse control disorder characterized by the overpowering urge to steal items, usually of little value and not needed by the person afflicted.
12774	Patterson syndrome is also called pseudoleprechaunism. This is very rare syndrome that first mistakenly diagnosed as Donohue Syndrome or Leprechaunism.
12775	PCC deficiency, also known as propionic acidermia, is a disease in which the body is unable to produce certain proteins and lipids. Because of this an abnormal accumulation of acids contaminate the blood and become toxic to some tissues.
12776	Peanut allergy is identified as one of the most common form of food allergy and is often diagnosed during the first years of life. In most cases, children usually outgrow this condition as they grow older, while there are some who tend to develop serious reactions that require emergency medical attention.
12777	Peanut hypersensitivity or peanut allergy is a form of food allergy but are distinct from that of nut allergies. It is a specific hypersensitivity to some dietary substances found on peanuts which causes a possible overreaction of the body's immune system. This hypersensitivity may also lead to an extremely severe symptoms to countless people, physycally. Peanut hypersensitivity is the most often cause of death related to food. An extremely severe peanut allergy may result to anaphylaxis, which is often an emergency situation that requires real immediate attention from attending physician and should be treated with epinephrine.
12778	Pectus excavatum a Latin term meaning hollowed chest is the most common congenital deformity of the anterior wall of the chest, in which several ribs and the sternum grow abnormally. It produces a caved-in or sunken appearance of the chest. It is often present at birth and progresses during the time of rapid bone growth in the early teenage years, but in rare cases does not appear until the onset of puberty.
12779	Pediatric T-cell leukemia is a rare type of an acute lymphoblastic leukemia occuring to children. It is a cancer involving the lymphoblasts which forms lymphocyte cells.
12780	Pediculosis is condition termed for the infestation of parasistic insects called lice. They mostly attact the human bodies. The more popular term for the condition is head lice, pubic lice, or body lice. Pediculus humanus capitis or the head lice in most common term affects children belonging to the age groups of 3-10 as well as their families which occur mostly in females.
12781	Pediculosis capitis is a highly communicable "disease" (especially in children) wherein the head of the person suffering therefrom is infested with tiny parasites which live and feed on blood from the scalp, known as head lice.
12782	Pelizaeus-Merzbacher disease is a very rare disorder involving the central nervous system. The disease affects the motor abilities, coordination, and intellectual function of the person affected.
12783	Pellagra is a vitamin deficiency disease caused by dietary lack of niacin (B3) and protein, especially proteins containing the essential amino acid tryptophan. Because tryptophan could be converted into niacin, foods with tryptophan but without niacin, such as milk, prevent pellagra. But, if dietary tryptophan is diverted into protein production, niacin deficiency may still result.
12784	Pelvic inflammatory disease is term used generally to describe inflammation occuring in the female uterus, ovaries, or fallopian tubes.The disease may also lead to a condition called tissue necrosis without abscess formation or with abscess formation. Pus cells due to the inflammation can be released and affect the peritoneum.Pelvic inflammatory disease is a very vague and broad term which can also refer to any form may it be viral, parasitic, bacterial, or fungal. In most cases, it is often bacterial in nature.
12785	Pelvic lipomatosis is a rare disease which often occurs to older black men who are obese and with hypertension. In pelvic lipomatosis, dense deposits of normal fat in abnormal amount may be seen in spaces in the pelvic area. Pelvic lipomatosis is often benign overgrowth of some adipose tissue with small fibrotic components as well as inflammatory. Pelvic lipomatosis is commonly found incidentally when doing a routine check up.
12786	Pemphigus is a medical condition used to describe a vesiculobullous disease affecting the skin and the mucous membranes which then causes vesicles or blisters, raw sores, and bullae. An autoimmune disease which is caused when the body's immune system mistook its own tissues to be a foreign tissue and destroys it. Antibodies attacking his very own cells are autoantibodies. The target of the autoantibodies in the pemphigus condition is the desmoglein which is a form of protein. Desmoglein is the "glue" attaching some epidermal cells adjacent to each other by the desmosomes.
12787	Pemphigus Foliaceus is the least severe form of the three varieties of Pemphigus. In this case, the antibodies attack Desmoglein 1 protein which is only found in the upper layer of the skin which is usually a dry layer of the skin. Unlike pemphigus vulgaris, pemphigus foliaceus is not as painfull and often times misdiagnosed to be dermatitis or sometimes eczema.
12788	The pemphigus vulgaris is the most common form of Pemphigus disorder. Pemphigus vulgaris results when the antibodies attack the Desmoglein 3. It causes sores originating in the mouth and making eating difficult and also uncomfortable for the sufferer. Commonly, it occurs to people who are between the ages of 40 and 60 although it can also affect other people not belonging to that age group. In rare cases though, it is linked with myasthenia gravis.
12789	Pendred syndrome is otherwise called Pendred disease. This is a disorder, which is genetic in nature that leads to sensorineural hearing loss involving both ears and goitre occationally accompanied with hypothyroidism. Pendred syndrome has been associated to mutations specifically in the PDS gene which is responsible for coding of the pendrin protein.
12790	Penicillin allergy is the extreme sensitivity to penicillin and other related antibiotics. These are medications that are formularized to treat bacterial infections and allergic reaction to such products can prove to highly dangerous. It is still unclear why some people are allergic to such medications, but it is mostly a malfunction of the immune system, like all other types of allergies.
12791	Penile candidiasis pertains to a rare yeast infection of the penis caused by a fungus of the genus Candida, transmitted via sexual contact.
12792	Penis cancer is a disease where malignant cells are found to originate from the penile tissues. It is also known as Penile Cancer.
12793	Pentalogy of Cantrell is a very rare syndrome which causes defects in the diaphragm, heart and lower sternum, abdominal wall, and pericardium. The syndrome are characterized into five findings. This includes Omphalocele, Anterior diaphragmatic hernia, Sternal cleft, Ectopia cordis, and Intracardiac defect which involves a defective ventricular septal or a state called diverticulum of the left ventricle. It is characterized by a combination of very severe defects involving the middle of the chest which does not exclude the sternum, abdominal wall, diaphragm, and heart.
12794	Pentosuria is a condition where xylulose which is a pentose is found in the urine at abnormally high concentrations. The condition is often associated to the deficiency of L-xylulose reductase, which is a reducing sugar. Thus it usually give false diagnosis and lead to misdiagnosis of the condition as diabetes.
12795	Peptic Ulcer, also known as peptic ulcer disease or PUD, are sores that develop on the stomach lining, esophagus, the upper small intestine and other areas of the gastrointestinal tract, making it extremely painful for the patient.
12796	Periarteritis nodosa is also popularly called Polyarteritis nodosa. This is condition of a vasculitis of the medium-sized arteries. The arteries become swollen and eventually damaged due to attacks by the rogue immune cells. Another term for this condition is Kussmaul disease or the broader term Kussmaul-Meier disease.
12797	Pericarditis pertains to the swelling and/or irritation of the thin sac-like membrane surrounding the heart called the pericardium.
12798	Perilymph fistula, or PLF, is an abnormal opening in the fluid-filled inner ear. Possible places where PLF can occur are: between the middle ear/mastoid sinus, the intracranial cavity, other spaces in the temporal bone, or the bone of the ear called the otic capsule. In most cases it is a tear in thin membranes called oval window and round window, between the middle and inner ears. Perilymph fistula is generally considered a rare disorder and may occur in one or both ears.
12799	Perilymph fistula is also known as labyrinthine fistula. This is a condition wherein there is leakage of the inner ear fluid entering into the middle ear. This condition is believed to be a complication due to stapedectomy. Perilymphatic fistula are classified into four categories, namely congenital, iatrogenic, spontaneous, and traumatic.
12800	Perinatal infection is described as an infection which is caused by less common parasites, bacteria, or viruses passed from the mother to the baby during her pregnancy or at childbirth which the baby can get from the mother's vagina at birth.
12801	Periodic fever, aphthous stomatitis, pharyngitis and adenitis syndrome is a medical condition that usually starts with young children. In this condition children would develop high fever which mostly occurs at a periodic interval of 3-5 weeks. This is often times accompanied with pharyngitis, adenitis, and/or aphthous ulcers.
12802	Periodic paralysis is a collective term for the genetic illnesses that cause weakness and paralysis from simple ailments such as stress, high carbohydrate meals, mood changes or any physical activity.
12803	Periodontitis, is a collective name of inflammatory diseases that affects the tissues which is surrounding and supporting the teeth. Periodontitis is the state involving a progressive loss of bone which surrounds the teeth and could lead to loosening ore eventually loosing the teeth if it remains untreated. Periodontitis is very common disorder.
12804	Peripartum Cardiomyopathy is a form of a dilated cardiomyopathy. It is described as the deterioration in cardiac function usually in periods between the late pregnancy months up to five months of postpartum. Patients usually have no history relating to any heart disease with no other causes of the heart failure. Peripartum cardiomyopathy involves decrease in the left ventricular ejection fraction which is associated with congestive heart failure as well as an elevated risk of having atrial and ventricular arrhythmias or even a sudden cardiac death.
12805	Peripheral neuropathy is the term used to describe damage to the nerves in the peripheral nervous system. The damage may be bue to diseases involving the nerve due to side-effects of some systemic illness. The damage or Peripheral neuropathies may vary on how they are presented and how it originated.
12806	Peripheral vascular disease also known as peripheral vascular disease (PVD) and peripheral artery disease (PAD) is a collator for all diseases caused by the obstruction of large peripheral arteries, which can result from atherosclerosis, inflammatory processes leading to stenosis, an embolism or thrombus formation.
12807	Peritoneal mesothelioma is a rare cancer that normally occurs in the abdominal tissue.
12808	Peritoneum cancer pertains to cancer originating from the peritoneum, a membrane that lines the insides of the abdomen including all the organs found here like the intestines, liver and stomach. Peritoneum cancer is a rare type of cancer mainly affecting women, similar to ovarian cancer. Peritoneum cancer is also alternatively known as primary peritoneal cancer or PPC.
12809	Peritonitis is defined as an the swelling or inflammation of the serous membrane which lines a part of our abdominal cavity and the viscera it contains. This mebrane is called peritoneum. The swelling may be localised in just one part or covering generally the whole lining of the cavity. Peritonitis usually manifest an acute course which may depend largely on either localised or generalised infection. People with Peritonitis are usually treated with surgical emergency.
12810	Periventricular leukomalacia is often characterized by the death of the white matter which is found near the cerebral ventricles. The death of the white matter is caused by the softening of the tissue of the brain. It usually could affect newborn babies or fetuses, with premature babies being at the greatest risk to suffer from the disorder.
12811	Pernicious anemia is also popularly known as Biermer's anaemia and Addison's anaemia or even Addison-Biermer anaemia. This is a rare form of megaloblastic anemia which is due to deficiency in vitamin B12 which is caused by an impaired absorption of the vitamin because of the absence of some intrinsic factor especially in the setting of the atrophic gastritis, more specifically, loss of the gastric parietal cells.
12812	Perniosis is also called Chilblains or blain, when it occurs on the feet. This is a medical condition which is often mistaken as frostbite or trench foot. Perniosis are ulcers on the extremities like the toes and fingers that occur especially when a predisposed individual was exposed to cold atmosphere or humidity.
12813	Peroneal muscular atrophy is a hereditary neurological disorder that causes neuropathy, particularly to the peripheral nerves or the myelin sheath, resulting in muscle weakness and muscle bulk loss. The other names for peroneal muscular atrophy are Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease, and hereditary motor and sensory neuropathy.
12814	Persistent cough or also called as chronic cough is not a disease in itself; rather it is a symptom of other disorders. It is a usual problem and the reason for many doctor visits.
12815	Persistent Sexual Arousal Syndrome is also known as Persistent Genital Arousal Disorder. This disorder results in a persistent arousal of the genitalia, with or even without orgasm or engorgement which is even unrelated to any feelings of desire sexually. Arousal caused by this syndrome can sometimes be very intense and can persist for over an extended period of time for days or even weeks.
12816	Persistent truncus arteriosus is otherwise known as Truncus arteriosus. This is an extremely rare congenital heart disease usually present at birth. The embryological structure which is named truncus arteriosus didn't properly divide into two parts which is the aorta and the pulmonary artery.
12817	Pertussis is popularly called whooping cough. This is a very highly contageous disease that caused by Bordetella pertussis bacteria. Pertusis is one of the top causes of vaccine-preventable deaths with most deaths occuring to very young infants who are unvaccinated or who are not completely vaccinated.
12818	Pervasive disintegrative disorder is a developmental disorder in which children whose development is normal until age 3 or 4, exhibit a severe loss of social, communication and other skills after the said age.
12819	Pes planus is also popularly known as flat feet or fallen arches. This is a condition wherein the foot arch collapses making the entire sole of the foot becoming completely or nearly in contact to the ground. Having Pes planus also does not mean decreased in foot speed as it do not affect a person's response to Plantar reflex test.
12820	Pet allergy is characterized by the extreme sensitivity to pet fur or feather, causing an allergic reaction. However, aside from the fur, the well-known irritant in pet allergies in the animal dander or the dead skin flakes that floats around the air causing watery eyes and other typical reactions to an allergy.
12821	Petit mal seizure, otherwise known as absence seizure, is a condition which occurs mostly in children, and is characterized by episodes of momentary and sudden lapse of conscious activity.
12822	Peutz-Jeghers is also popularly known as Hereditary Intestinal Polyposis Syndrome. This is an autosomal disease involving the dominant genes. It is occurs as a development of some hamartomatous polyps in our gastrointestinal tract.
12823	Peyronie's disease is a disorder of the connective tissue because of the development of some fibrous plaques in the soft tissue found in the patient's penis. Other term for Peyronies Disease is penile induration.
12824	Pfeiffer syndrome is a disorder often genetic in nature. This disorder is characterized by a premature fusion of the craniosynostosis and prevents the growth of the skull thereby affecting head shape as well as the face. This condition though is extremely rare which can also happen to the healthiest people.
12825	Phaeohyphomycosis pertains to a group of mycotic (fungal) infection identified by the presence of dematiaceous (brown-pigmented) septate hyphae and, sometimes, yeast, or both in the tissue. The infection can be seen as superficial and deep, and often leads to subcutaneous cyst formations.
12826	Phantom pain is a feeling of pain coming from a body part that has already been amputated or no longer in existence.
12827	Pharmacophobia otherwise known as fear of medicine or fear of taking medicines is a persistent and unwarranted fear of taking medicine or drugs. This is an abnormal state of the mind which each year causes many people distress.
12828	Pharyngitis is the inflammation due to irritation of the back of the throat, or of the pharynx.
12829	Phenylketonuria is a genetic disorder (autosomal recessive) which is due to a deficient phenylalanine hydroxylase, which is essential in metabolizing phenylalanine to tyrosine.
12829	Phenylketonuria or PKU is a birth defect; more specifically, a mutation of the gene causing to produce the enzyme needed to break down the amino acid phenylalanine. People with this disease are generally advised to limit food with high-protein like cheese, meats and nuts.
12830	Pheochromocytoma is a neuroendocrine tumor which occur in the medulla found in the adrenal glands. These originated in the chromaffin cells or from the extra-adrenal chromaffin tissues that failed to curl or curve forward after birth.
12831	Philippine hemorrhagic fever, also known as dengue fever, is an epidemic disease caused by mosquitoes under the Aedes family. It is a common cause of death that has plagued Asian countries especially during rainy days.
12832	Phimosis is a condition wherein the male foreskin cannot be fully retracted from the head of the penis. There are several types of phimosis which includes: 1) infantile phimosis common among newborns; 2) congenital phismosis, a physiological occurance; 3) acquired phimosis, (relative and full phimosis) usually pathological. Women can also suffer from clitoral phismosis.
12833	Phlebitis, a short term for thrombophlebitis, is defined as the inflammation of a vein, resulting from a blood clot, caused by prolonged inactivity. It may either be a superficial thrombophlebitis, or deep vein thrombosis.
12834	Phocomelia is a malformation of the upper appendage of the arm or the leg is omitted with the hands or the legs directly attached to the body. This is a congenital defect also described as seal's flippers.
12835	Photic sneezing is a genetic autosomal dominant trait, which causes sneezing when exposed suddenly to bright light, possibly many times consecutively. It is also pertains to photic sneeze response, sun sneezing, photogenic sneezing, the photosternutatory reflex, being photo sensitive, or even whimsically as ACHOO syndrome with its related backronym Autosomal dominant Compelling Helio-Ophthalmic Outburst syndrome. The condition affects 17 to 35 percent to humans.
12836	Photosensitive epilepsy (PSE) affects three to five percent of epileptics. Seizures occur when the affected individual is exposed over a period of time or space to images that have patterns, including flashing lights and regular patterns. Attacks are usually caused by certain visuals, with females more likely to be diagnosed with the condition. Symptoms surface in childhood, peaking at the onset of puberty.
12837	Photosensitivities are people are sensitive to sunlight.
12838	Coined after the Latin name of magpie, a bird with an indiscriminating and voracious appetite, the medical disorder pica is characterized by an individual's appetite for non-nutritive substances (such as coal, feces, chalk, paper and soil) including raw food or ingredients (like flour, starch and raw potato). An individual affected with the disorder exhibits the behavior for over a month, at the stage where eating these kinds of objects is not developmentally appropriate. Pica is observed among pregnant women, small children, especially those who are developmentally disabled.
12839	Named after the first doctor to describe it, Pick's disease is an incurable and unique fronto-temporal neurodegenerative disease that causes about 0.4-2 percent of dementia. Symptoms usually appear in people 40 to 60 years slowly leading to declining mental abilities. It gradually destroys the brain cells and damages their function, disturbing cognitive processes such as problem solving, memory and reasoning. One's ability to use as well as understand spoken, written and signed language is also affected.
12839	Pick's disease is a rare neurodegenerative disease that triggers the fronto-temporal area. It is the progressive degeneration of the nerve cells and causes tau proteins to accumulate in an abnormal fashion. It commonly affects adults.
12840	The rare disorder Pickardt syndrome is a type of hypothyroidism which arises when an interruption occurs in the portal vessels linking the hypothalamus to the pituitary. This results to an inadequate supply of TRH in the anterior pituitary lobe, consequently releasing low levels of TSH and leading to the understimulation of thyroid hypothyroidism.
12841	Pickwickian syndrome, also known as obesity hyperventilation syndrome, is a condition where blood oxygen falls during sleep, causing hyperventilation. Hypercapnia, or the increased amounts of carbon dioxide in the body occurs, as well as difficulty in breathing.
12842	Piebaldism is a genetic and rare disorder characterized by the presence of white forelock. Caused by lack of pigmentation, it may also affect the eyebrow, eyelash hair, face, trunk and extremities. It usually manifests at birth and remains throughout a patient's lifetime.
12843	Pierre Robin syndrome is a congenital malformation of the facial attributes. It is not triggered by a genetic defect; rather, the disease is a chain of malformations that develop one after the other.
12844	The disorder pigmented villonodular synovitis (PVNS) results when the lining of our joints become swollen. Commonly affecting the hip and knee, the lining produces extra fluid that induces swelling and makes motion very painful. PVNS may be localized or diffused. Diffused PVNS usually affects larger joints like the knees, while the localized type damages smaller joints like hands or feet.
12845	Pilar or trichilemmal cysts are sometimes called wens. These are common fluid-filled cysts growing from the hair follicles on the scalp. These growths are usually smooth and mobile which is filled with keratin. Keratin is a protein component, which is found in the hair, skin, and nails. The cysts are sometimes tender but some are not. It is but rarely that these cysts grow extensively and proliferates.
12846	Piles, which are more commonly known as hemorrhoids, are swollen and inflamed veins in the anus and rectum, which may be caused by increased pressure on the said veins during a bowel movement or during pregnancy.
12847	Pili multigemini, also compound hairs, is characterized by the growth of several hair fibers in one hair canal. From a single hair canal, several hair follicles combine and develop into the skin's surface. The disease is classified as rare with less than 200,000 affected in the US. There is likewise a dearth of information on the treatment of this disease.
12848	Pilonidal cysts, or sacroccygeal fistula, is the general term used for skin infections that occur near our tailbone. The infection commonly begins when ingrown hairs press into skin folds, irritating and inflaming skin and resulting to discomfort. The harm however lies when pus fills the infected area, causing pilonidal abscess. Pilonidal cysts are more likely to affect men than women, especially those in their early adulthood. It can also be observed in the navel and armpits.
12849	Pimples are bumps that appear in the the skin, usually in the face, neck, chest, and back, which results from a blockage in the skin's pore.
12850	A pinched nerve is a condition wherein the the nerve's function is disrupted because of too much pressure applied by the surrounding tissues to a nerve, causing pain and/or numbness in the affected area.
12851	Pinealoma is defined as a rare type of tumor that grows at a slow rate in the patient's brain. This disease is often referred to as pineocytoma or pinealocytoma.
12852	Pinta is a skin disease caused by infection with a spirochete, Treponema carateum, which is indistinguishable from the organism that causes syphilis.
12853	Pinworm infection is an intestinal and digestive tract infection wherein roundworms, which are defined as parasites that use the body as a host, infest the digestive tract.
12854	Pipecolic acidemia is a metabolic disorder caused by a peroxisomal defect. It is also refered to as Hyperpipecolic acidemia or Hyperpipecolatemia.
12855	Pituitary Cancer pertains to malignant tumor or tumors that originate from the pituitary glands, those pea-sized glands located just above and behind the nose, or at the center of the brain, which primarily control hormone production and regulation for a number of bodily functions.
12856	Pituitary insufficiency, otherwise known as hypopituitarism, is a rare disorder, in which there is an underproduction by the pituitary gland of one or more of its hormones, or it does not produce them at all.
12857	Pituitary tumors are abnormal growths that develop in the pituitary gland, which may cause either overproduction or underproduction of hormones.
12858	Pityriasis Alba is characterized as a benign skin condition which are common in children. It manifests as light-colored patches seen usually on the child's cheeks. The condition also typically lasts for a year or even more without being treated. Pityriasis Alba resolves right after puberty or during adulthood.
12859	Pityriasis lichenoides chronica is a chronic version of the Pityriasis lichenoides et varioliformis acuta. It is also known as Mucha Habermann's Disease.
12860	Pityriasis Lichenoides et Varioliformis Acuta (PLEVA) is an immune system disease characterized by skin rashes and small lesions.
12861	Pityriasis rosea is a common human skin disease which presents as numerous patches of pink or red oval rash, mainly on the torso. Although the cause remains unknown, it is most likely a virus. Antibiotics like Erythromycin have been found to be completely ineffective. The condition appears to be completely non-contagious.
12862	Pityriasis rubra pilaris, also referred to as Devergie's disease, is a skin disorder that has a sudden onset.
12863	Pityriasis versicolor, also called tinea versicolor, is a common fungal infection which affects the skin surface, and manifests as small, scaly, discolored patches on the skin.
12864	Placenta previa is a pregnancy complication, wherein the placenta positions itself in the lower part of the uterus and grows therein to block the cervix, which may result to vaginal bleeding before or during delivery.
12865	Placental abruption is a pregnancy complication in which the placental lining has separated from mother's uterus.
12866	Plague is a life-threatening infection caused by the organism Yersinia pestis, the bacterium that caused the 14th-century Black Death plague pandemic.
12867	Plantar fasciitis formerly called "policeman's heel" in the United Kingdom, is a painful inflammatory condition caused by excessive wear to the plantar fascia of the foot or biomechanical faults that cause abnormal pronation of the foot.
12868	Plantar warts are benign skin growths on the feet soles caused by the human papillomavirus (HPV), which enters the body through tiny cuts and breaks in your skin.
12869	Abnormalities in the number of platelets in an individual such as a reduced count, elevated count, or adhesion or aggregation, lead to certain disorders. Low levels may result to bleeding while high levels increase the risk of thrombosis.
12870	Pleural Cancer is a type of cancer occurring in the layer of tissue covering the lungs and the lining the interior wall of the chest cavity that protects and cushions the lungs. Technically, the pleura is a sac that contains the lungs and a thin membrane called the mesothelium. Mesothelioma is cancer of the pleural lining caused by asbestos.
12871	Pleural effusion is a condition in which excess fluid accumulates in the pleural cavity of the lungs, impairing the ability to breath because of the lungs' limited expansion during inhalation.
12872	Pleural mesothelioma, the most common form of mesothelioma, is a rare cancer that occurs in the pleura or the tissue that surrounds the lung.
12873	Pleurisy, also known as pleuritis, is defined as the inflammation of the pleura, which is the double membrane that lines the chest cavity and surrounds each of the lungs.
12874	Pleuritis is an inflammation of the lining of the pleural cavity surrounding the lungs called pleura that can cause painful respiration and other symptoms. The condition is also called pleurisy.
12875	Plica Syndrome pertains to an irritation to the plica - a fold of tissue lining the knee joint. Plica syndrome appears to occur in females more than in males. This disorder does not appear to damage the knee but can be very painful.
12876	The Plummer-Vinson syndrome is associated with severe, long-term iron deficiency anemia that causes difficulty in swallowing because of growing web-like tissue membranes in the throat. The disorder is also referred to as Paterson-Brown-Kelly syndrome or sideropenic dysphagia.
12877	Pneumoconiosis is an occupational lung disease due to dust inhalation.
12878	Pneumocystis pneumonia is a type of pneumonia caused by Pneumocystis jirovecii, which is a yeast-like fungus.
12879	Pneumocystis pneumonia is a type of pneumonia caused by Pneumocystis jirovecii, which is a yeast-like fungus.
12880	Eosinophilic pneumonia is a condition in which certain white blood cells accumulate in the lungs, disrupting normal oxygen intake. The condition has many existing types occurring in any age group.
12881	Pneumonoultramicroscopicsilicovolcanoconiosis is a lung disease due to the inhalation of fine silica dust.
12882	Pneumothorax is a type of lung collapse.
12883	POEMS syndrome is a disorder of the blood. Its name stands for the syndrome's most common symptoms: Polyneuropathy, Organomegaly, Endocrinopathy/Edema, M-protein and Skin abnormalities.
12884	Poikiloderma congenita, or Rothmund-Thomson syndrome, is a genetic disease characterized by the degeneration of the skin accompanied by stunted growth, cataracts, deformed nasal bridge, and other malformations in the nails, bones and teeth.
12885	Poikiloderma of Civatte is described as a chronic, benign condition of the skin usually affecting fair-skinned adults. This condition is believed to have been caused by a long exposure to the sun's heat. This condition usually affects women who are of older ages and it also progresses as the age goes higher.
12886	Poison ivy rash is a skin irritation, caused by contact with a substance called urushiol, which comes from poison ivy or other toxic plants, that may result in a red, itchy rash, consisting of small bumps, blisters or swelling.
12887	Poland syndrome is a physical condition in which an individual has one-sided congenital malformations of the body characterized by underdeveloped chest muscles and webbed fingers. The abnormalities usually occur on the same side of the body.
12888	Poliomyelitis is a very contagious disease caused by poliovirus. The disease is usually referred to as polio or infantile paralysis.
12889	Pollen Allergy is more commonly known as Hay Fever. An allergic reaction to pollens of specific seasonal plants, airborne chemicals and dust particles to people who are allergic to these substances.
12890	Polyarteritis nodosa is an autoimmune disease affecting any organ of the body. It is also referred to as Kussmaul disease or Kussmaul-Meier disease.
12891	Polyarthritis is a type of arthritis that involves the inflammation of five or more joints.
12892	Polychondritis is an auto-immune disease in which the body's immune system starts to destroy cartilage tissues. It is a disease subclass in Rheumatology.
12893	Polycystic kidney disease is a kidney disorder due to multiple cysts in the kidneys. The disease may also damage the liver and pancreas. In rare cases, it can also damage the heart and brain.
12894	Polycystic Ovary Syndrome is the most common hormonal disorder of women of reproductive age, which may lead to infertility.
12895	Polycythemia, or erythrocytosis, is a condition where there is a net increase in the total number of blood cells, primarily in the red blood cells, of the body. There are different types of polycythemia: primary polycythemia (polycythemia vera), secondary polycythemia, chuvash polycythemia, and relative polycythemia
12896	Polycythemia vera is a blood disorder due to the excess of red blood cells or over production of white blood cells and platelets. The excess red blood cells cause the thickening of blood.
12897	Polydactyly is a physical abnormality in which an individual has more than five fingers or toes.
12898	Polyendocrine Deficiency is a disease of which there are two classifications. These are simply called Type I and Type II. This disease is a heterogeneous group of rare disorders represented by autoimmune activity alongside more than one endocrine organ.
12899	Polymorphous light eruption is a common rash that occurs as a result of sensitivity to sunlight (photosensitivity). Several people who are sensitive to sunlight can experience a reaction after an episode of intense sun exposure, usually in the spring or early summer.
12900	Polymorphous low-grade adenocarcinoma is a tumor affecting the minor salivary glands, commonly but not exclusively in the palate.
12901	Polymyalgia rheumatica is an inflammatory disorder causing muscle aches and stiffness such as in the neck, shoulders, upper arms, thighs, and hips.
12902	Polymyositis is an inflammation of the muscle fibers usually those muscles close to the torso.
12903	Polyneuritis is a widespread inflammation of several peripheral nerves at the same time.
12904	Polyostotic fibrous dysplasia is also known as McCune-Albright syndrome. It is a genetic condition with disorder of the bones, pigmentation of skin, and premature puberty with hormonal problems.
12905	The disease is called Peutz-Jeghers syndrome, also known as Hereditary Intestinal Polyposis Syndrome. It is an inherited condition in which hamartomatous polyps develop in the gastrointestinal tract.
12906	Stomach polyps are growths appearing in the stomach. The most common types of which are: fundic gland stomach polyps, which are found in the top portion of the stomach; hyperplastic stomach polyps; and adenomas, which arise from the stomach's glandular tissue.
12907	Uterine polyps are growths appearing on the inner wall of the uterus, and protruding into the uterine cavity, caused by overgrowth of cells.
12908	Pompe's disease is a metabolic disorder in which the body an acid maltase deficiency.
12909	Pompholyx, otherwise known as dyshidrosis and dyshidrotic eczema, is a skin condition in which small, vesicles or fluid-filled blisters occur on the palms, or the soles, or both.
12910	It is a mild form of legionellosis which is caused by the bacteria that commonly last for two to five days where in treatment is not necessary.
12911	Pontiac fever pertains to a disease caused by the Legionella pneumophila bacterium, which typically manifests with flu-like symptoms. Pontiac fever is actually a mild from of legionellosis; the severe form being Legionnaires disease.
12912	Poor color vision is a condition wherein the person afflicted is unable to distinguish among certain shades of color, more commonly shades of red and green, caused by the lack of one or more light-sensitive chemicals in the color-sensitive cells at the back of the retina.
12913	Popliteal cyst, also known as the baker's cyst, is a condition in which a bulge, and a feeling of pain and tightness behind the knee is experienced. The pain gets worse upon extension of the knee.
12914	Popliteal pterygium syndrome is a condition that affects the face, limbs, and genitalia. It was named based on the popliteal pterygium, which is a weblike membrane behind the knee. The condition is also referred to as the popliteal web syndrome or facio-genito-popliteal syndrome.
12915	Pterygium Popliteal Lethal Type is a severe form of popliteal pterygium syndrome in which affected individuals often die at the neonatal or intrauterine stages. It is also known as Bartsocas-Papas syndrome.
12916	Porencephaly is a disorder of the central nervous system due to a cyst or cavity in a cerebral hemisphere that may occur before or after birth.
12917	Porphyria is a group of various disorders due to abnormalities in the chemical process that produce heme. The largest amounts of heme are found in the blood and bone marrow, in which it carries oxygen.
12918	Porphyria cutanea tarda (PCT), is a disease characterized by having low levels of the enzyme used in producing heme, a molecule vital to all organs of the body. There are basically two types of PCT, the familial type and the sporadic type. The main difference between the two is that, as its name suggests, the familial type PCT is inherited.
12919	Porphyria cutanea tarda (PCT), familial type, is the type of PCT that is inheritted. It constitutes 20% of all cases of the disease. In general, PCT is a disease characterized by having low levels of the enzyme used in producing heme, a molecule vital to all organs of the body.
12920	Porphyria cutanea tarda (PCT), sporadic type, also known as Type I PCT, is characterized by a deficiency of the uroporphyrinogen decarboxylase (UROD) which produces an enzyme that is essential to the production of heme, a molecule vital to all organs of the body. Clinic manifestations of PCT among individuals with TYPE I PCT are usually caused by risk factors such as alcohol abuse and Hepatitis C.
12921	Acute intermittent porphyria (AIP) is a metabolic disorder characterized by decreased level of the enzyme porphobilinogen deaminase. It is a rare disease that affects the production of heme, a prosthetic group of hemoglobin responsible for oxygen binding.
12922	Portal hypertension is called as such because it is a type high blood pressure condition that occurs in the portal vein and its branches. The condition is often defined by the difference in pressure between the portal vein and the hepatic veins, which is known as the portal pressure gradient, of 5 mm HG or higher.
12923	Portal vein thrombosis is a type of venous thrombosis that affects the hepatic portal vein. This condition often leads to reduction in the blood supply to the liver as well as portal hypertension.
12923	Portal vein thrombosis is a type of venous thrombosis that affects the hepatic portal vein. This condition often leads to reduction in the blood supply to the liver as well as portal hypertension
12924	Post Polio syndrome (PPS) is a disorder that is experienced by individuals who have suffered from an initial paralytic attack of poliomyelitis, a viral infection that affects the nervous system.
12925	Post Traumatic Stress disorder (PTSD) is defined as a severe and ongoing emotional reaction to one or several terrifying events that involved physical harm or the threat of it. These events may include a threat to the life of the patient, a death of someone close to the patient or serious physical injury or threat of it. Some cases may be caused solely by a severe psychological trauma.
12926	Post-concussion syndrome is a disorder wherein the symptoms of concussion (a type of mild traumatic brain injury, usually occurring after a blow to the head) remains to be felt for weeks or even months after the impact which caused the concussion.
12927	Post-nasal Drip or PND (although this tern is deemed obsolete) happens when excessive mucus is produced by the sinus. This excessive mucus can accumulate in the throat or the back of the nose. It is now referred to as Chronic Upper Airway Cough Syndrome.
12928	Post-polio syndrome is a condition wherein a person who has had polio, experiences certain late effects of the disease, many years after the illness.
12929	Post-traumatic epilepsy (PTE) is a disorder characterized by late post-traumatic seizures (PTS) which are caused by traumatic brain injury (TBI) or damaged to the brain caused by physical trauma. It is estimated that PTE makes up 5% of all epilepsy cases and 20% of all symptomatic epilepsy. The more sever the trauma the more likely that PTE will develop.
12930	Post-Vietnam syndrome is a kind of post-traumatic stress disorder experienced by the veterans of the Vietnam War. This is commonly characterized by anxiety attacks, depression and hallucinations wherein patients relive their memories of the event.
12931	Posterior urethral valves is a congenital condition characterized by an obstruction in the male urethra.
12932	Posterior uveitis is a sub-class of uveitis, a condition characterized by an inflammation of the middle layer of the eye, which is called the uvea. Simply put, it is an inflammatory process involving the interior of the eye. Posterior uveitis refers to the inflammation of the retina and choroid. In the United States, 10% of the blindness cases are attributed to uveitis. Posterior uveitis is the rarer kind of uveitis.
12933	Postpartum depression is a type of depression occurring in women soon after having a baby. It occurs in 15% of women, usually after a few months upon delivery. A person experiencing postpartum depression worries about her baby's health continuously, develops negative thoughts towards the baby and experiences fears about harming the baby. Obviously, women with postpartum depression may become incapable of taking care of their babies. When women with postpartum depression become suicidal, she may try to kill her baby and other children, thinking that she wouldn't want to abandon them once she successfully commits suicide.
12934	Postpartum Hemorrage is excessive bleeding following the birth of a baby, particularly more common in cesarean births. It usually happens right after delivery, but it can also happen later.
12935	Postpartum psychosis is an extremely rare condition, which develops and occurs within the first 5 to 6 weeks after delivery. Compared to postpartum depression, signs and symptoms of postpartum psychosis are more severe.
12936	Postural hypotension, also known as orthostatic hypotension, is a type of hypertension characterized by a sudden decline in blood pressure, usually more than 20/10 mm Hg, that usually happens when an individuals is standing immediately after resting for a significant period of time. The condition is commonly known as head rush or dizzy spell. Oder individuals suffer from the disease more than young ones.
12937	Potassium defficiency or Hypokalemia is a condition characterized by low concentration of potassium in the blood. About 95% of the potassium in the human body are found inside cells, the rest are found in the blood. Potassium is a very important mineral. It is responsible for muscle and nerve actions.
12938	Potter's syndrome, also known as Potter's disease, refers to a congenital defect in which the infant is born with missing, incomplete, or deformed kidneys.
12939	Poxviridae disease is caused by the poxviridae family of viruses which infects both vertebrate and invertebrate animals.
12940	Prader-Willi syndrome (PWS) is a genetic disorder characterized by hyperphagia, food preoccupation, learning difficulties and having a small stature. It is a very rare disorder that happens in only in 1 in 12,000 or 15,000 live births. It was discovered by Andrea Prader, Heinrich Willi, Alexis Labhart, Andrew Ziegler, and Guido Fanconi of Switzerland in 1956.
12941	Prebycusis is more commonly known as the age-related loss of hearing, reducing the ability to hear high frequencies and found mostly in aging people.
12942	Precocious puberty is a condition characterized by the unusually early onset of puberty which is defined as the process of sexual maturation that is initiated by the brain. The term precocious puberty is used broadly to describe the premature appearance of any signs of puberty.
12943	Preeclampsia is the term given to the condition where hypertension is present during pregnancy in connection with significant amounts of protein in the woman's urine. It occurs in as many as 10% of all pregnancies. The condition may develop from 20 weeks gestation. It may also occur 6 weeks postpartum. Preeclampsia is considered as one of the most dangerous complications that may happen during pregnancy because it endangers both the life of the woman and of the fetus.
12944	Pregnancy toxemia /hypertension is the term given to the condition where hypertension is present during pregnancy. When the hypertension is accompanied by significant amounts of protein in the woman's urine, then the condition is diagnosed as preeclampsia. The condition may develop from 20 weeks gestation. It may also occur 6 weeks postpartum. Pregnancy toxemia /hypertension a dangerous pregnancy complications that endangers both the life of the woman and of the fetus.
12945	Premature aging is the condition characterized by the early appearance of the signs of aging.
12946	Premature Ovarian Failure (POF) is a condition characterized by the loss of the function of the ovaries before the age of 40. It is also known as primary ovarian insufficiency. In the U.S., approximately 150,000 women, or 1-4% of the total population, is suffering from POF.
12947	Premature ventricular contractions are abnormal heartbeats disrupt heart's regular rhythm.
12948	Premenstrual dysphoric disorder also known as PMDD is a condition characterized by severe emotional and physical troubles that are associated closely with the menstrual cycle. Symptoms usually appear during the second half of the cycle and ceases as soon as the menstrual period starts or right after.
12949	Premenstrual syndrome was originally known as PMT or Premenstrual Tension. It is a collection of symptoms such as psychological, physical and emotional which is related to woman's menstrual cycle. For other women PMS can experience severe pain that can be disabling.
12950	Presbycusis is a common condition denoting gradual hearing loss.
12951	Presbyopia is the condition of the eyes in which they gradually lose their ability to focus actively on nearby objects.
12952	Priapism is considered to be a medical condition that is harmful due to the fact that an erect penis does not return to its normal size or form in a span of at least four hours. This condition is often painful though this condition is not accompanied by any sexual arousal. The condition is considered to be an emergency condition because it needs immediate medical attention.
12953	Prickly heat is also known as heat rash or miliaria. It occurs when sweat sweat ducts are blocked and perspiration is trapped under the skin.
12954	Primary alveolar hypoventilation or primary alveolar hypoventilation syndrome is a respiratory disorder marked by difficulty in breathing and may tend to get worse when sleeping due to impairment in the transfer of oxygen from the lungs to the blood. The condition results to short periods of breathing cessation during nightly episodes of apnea and often occurs in people suffering from obesity hypoventilation syndrome.
12955	Primary amenorrhea is a condition characterized by absence of menstrual periods by the age of sixteen (16).
12956	Primary biliary cirrhosis is a medical condition characterized by gradual destruction of the bile ducts in the liver that is responsible for transporting bile, a fluid produced in the liver. Destruction of bile ducts result to accumulation of harmful substances in the liver leading to cirrhosis (permanent liver tissue scarring).
12957	Primary ciliary dyskinesia is a rare congenital disorder, which causes defect in the action of the tiny hair-like structures that lines the respiratory tract and fallopian tube. The disease is also known as immotile ciliary syndrome or Kartagener syndrome, a rare autosomal recessive disorder resulting to reduced or absent mucus clearance from the lungs increasing susceptibility to long-term respiratory infections.
12958	Primary hyperoxaluria is a rare condition marked by overproduction of the substance oxalate also known as oxalic acid. Extreme oxalate deposits can combine with calcium and forms calcium oxalate leading to kidney damage or failure and injury to other organs in the body. There are two types of primary hyperoxaluria; type 1 primary hyperoxaluria and type 2 primary hyperoxaluria. The first one lacks the liver enzyme alanine-glyoxylate aminotransferase while the second type lacks the enzyme glyoxylate reductase/hydroxypyruvate reductase.
12959	Primary hyperparathyroidism is a disorder of the parathyroid glands characterized by too much secretion of hormones which cause disruption leading to elevated blood calcium levels.
12960	Primary immunodeficiency is also referred to as primary immune disorders. These conditions refer to the absence of the body's immune defenses making the affected individuals more susceptible to germ- causing infections.
12961	Primary lateral sclerosis is a progressive degenerative characterized by progressive muscle weakness present in the voluntary muscles. The disease belongs to the category of motor neuron diseases; which usually develops when nerve cells responsible for voluntary muscle movement degenerate and die.
12962	Primary ovarian insufficiency also referred to as premature ovarian failure, is the abnormal functioning of the ovaries before a woman turns 40 years old, in which the ovaries fail to produce estrogen in normal amounts that may lead to infertility and other problems.
12963	Primary polycythemia, also called polycythemia vera, is a blood disorder due to the excess of red blood cells or over production of white blood cells and platelets. The excess red blood cells cause the thickening of blood.
12964	Primary progressive aphasia is a rare neurological syndrome that has the capacity to impair language abilities usually affecting people over the age of fifty. The syndrome is characterized by reduced language skills that lead an individual to suffer difficulties in comprehending and using spoken or written language.
12965	Primary pulmonary hypertension is a rare disease of unknown origin that leads to progressive narrowing of blood vessels of the lungs, which causes high blood pressure in the affected blood vessels resulting to heart failure.
12966	Primary sclerosing cholangitis is a medical condition characterized by inflammation and scarring of the bile ducts located inside and outside the liver, which causes bile duct blockage, bile accumulation in the liver resulting to damaged liver cells and eventually lead to liver failure.
12967	Primordial microcephalic dwarfism Crachami type is a type of primordial microcephalic dwarfism, which is a rare syndrome characterized mainly by dwarfism. Physical features include extremely small head (microcephaly), large eyes, narrow face, and malformed ears.
12968	Prinzmetal's variant angina also known as variant angina, Prinzmetal's angina or angina inversa is a syndrome characterized by cardiac chest pain at rest usually when lying in bed, which usually occurs in cycles.
12969	Sensory integration disorder or dysfunction is a neurological disorder resulting from the brain's inability to process information received by the body's five basic sensory systems.
12970	Proconvertin deficiency, congenital also known as Factor VII deficiency is a rare inherited blood disorder caused by insufficiency of Factor VII blood protein, which can lead to poor blood coagulation.
12971	Proctalgia is pain due to spasm of the pelvic floor muscles, the muscles of the anal sphincter, or the muscles of the rectum. May also be called Proctalgia fagax.
12972	Proctitis is a medical condition characterized by inflamed lining if the rectum.
12973	Progeria also known as Hutchison-Gilford progeria is a rare progressive genetic disorder causing children to age rapidly usually starting in the first two years of life.
12974	Progressive external ophthalmoplegia is a disorder of the mitochondria marked by multiple mitochondrial DNA deletions in the skeletal muscle. The condition is characterized by progressive paralysis of the extraocular muscles resulting to bilateral, proportioned, progressive ptosis leading to ophthalmoparesis later on. The most familiar clinical presentations of progressive external ophthalmoplegia include weakness of the external eye muscles and intolerance to exercise. Other symptoms may include opacity in the lenses of the eyes (cataract), sensory axonal neuropathy, loss of hearing, complete loss of coordination in muscle movements, lack of the function of gonads (hypogonadism); rigidity, tremor, and postural instability (parkinsonism); and clinical depression. Neurologists can diagnose the disorder.
12975	Progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy is a rapidly progressive neuromuscular disease; an opportunistic infection occurring in individuals with deficient and ineffective immune response and individuals going through long-term chemotherapy for cancer.
12976	Progressive spinal muscular atrophy is a disease marked by progressive degeneration of motor neurons located in the spinal cord, which causes weakness and wasting of the voluntary muscles.
12977	Progressive supranuclear palsy also known as Steele-Richardson-Olszewski syndrome is a disorder of the brain resulting to severe problems with regards to walking, balance, and eye movements.
12978	Prolactinoma is a condition in which a noncancerous tumor of the pituitary gland in the brain overproduces the hormone prolactin. A decrease in normal levels of sex hormones (testosterone in men,estrogen in women) is a major effect of increased prolactin.
12979	Prolapsed bladder is the condition in which the bladder bulges into the vagina. It is also called cystocele.
12980	Prolapse uterus or uterine prolapse is the descent of the uterus into the vagina due to stretched and weakend pelvic floor musles and ligaments.
12981	Prolidase deficiency is a rare inborn disorder of collagen metabolism characterized by severe ulcerations in the skin, characteristic facial abnormalities, unrelieved joint dislocations, mental retardation, and bacterial infections.
12982	Prolymphocytic leukemia is a type of chronic lymphocytic leukemia characterized by the presence of excessive immature white blood cells in the blood and bone marrow. Patients with prolymphocytic leukemia often experience feeling of being too tired. Unexplainable weight loss is often observed in most cases. It is also common to develop enlargement of spleen. Blood test results will show abnormally elevated level of prolymphocytes in blood or in the bone marrow.
12983	Properdin deficiency is an X-linked disorder, a rare condition characterized by deficiency of properdin, a component of blood plasma. This inherited deficiency greatly affects immunity resulting to increased vulnerability to infections particularly Neisseria infections.
12984	This medical condition is the failure to recognize a familiar face or to learn to be familiar with new faces. This is most commonly related with lesions that involve the junctional regions among occipital and temporal lobes.
12985	This is a disease where in cancer happens in a gland in the male reproductive system which is known as prostrate. This happens when prostrate cells mutate and start to multiply uncontrollably.
12986	Prostate cancer, familial refers to the clustering of prostate cancer within families. Patients are classified as suffering form prostate cancer, familial if they have at least one first-degree relative with prostate cancer. Prostate cancer is malignancy (cancer) of the seminal fluid producing gland in males.
12987	Prostate gland enlargement is a condition in which prostate gland is enlarged putting pressure on the urethra and causing difficulty urinating. Its medical term is benign prostatic hyperplasia.
12988	Prostate inflammation is the swelling of the prostate gland commonly known as prostatitis. This disease is common among men ages 20 to 50.
12989	Prostatitis is a medical condition characterized by inflamed prostate gland caused by an infection. The prostate is the walnut-shaped organ in males that is responsible for semen production, the fluid necessary for the nourishing and transportation of sperm.
12990	Protanopia is also known as Red-Green Color Blindness. Red-green color blindness is split into two different types: People with protan color blindness are less sensitive to red light, and those with deuteranopia or deuteranomly (the second type of red-green color blindness) related to sensitiveness on green light. Males are more prone to this disorder.
12991	Protein C deficiency is a rare and life-threatening disorder marked by an increased inclination to form blood clots, which places an increased risk to possible thrombosis.
12992	Protein S deficiency is an inherited condition caused by lack of Protein S in the blood plasma. Individuals with Protein S deficiency have an increased tendency to form blood clots.
12993	Protein-energy malnutrition also known as protein-calorie malnutrition is a potentially fatal body-depletion ailment developing in children and adults who consumes insufficient amounts of protein and energy to meet the nutritional demands of the body.
12994	Proteinuria is a condition in which the urine contains a relatively abnormal amounts of proteins or the albumin. This can be because the glomeruli in our kidneys are damaged allowing the protein from our blood to exit to the urine. This condition is also being linked to some cardiovascular diseases.
12995	Proteus syndrome is a congenital condition characterized by skin overgrowths and abnormal bone developments, which often presents with tumors located in different parts of the body.
12996	Proximal myotonic myopathy is a inherited muscular disorder that results to muscle weakness, frequent muscle contractions, cataracts, infertility, balding, and cardiac problems. The disorder was only discovered in 2001. It is also known as myotonic dystrophy type 2.
12997	Prune belly syndrome is a congenital defect that occurs in about 1 in 30,000 newborn babies. It is a rare birth defect of the urinary system. The disease got its name because of the wrinkled skin that develops in the abdomens of those affected. Prune belly syndrome is also known as Abdominal Muscle Deficiency Syndrome, Eagle-Barrett Syndrome, and Obrinsky Syndrome.
12998	Prurigo nodularis is a skin disease that consists of itchy nodules on the arms and legs. Patients often incur excoriated lesion because of scratching.
12999	Pruritus is an itchy skin condition that may be the result of rashes or other itchy skin condition.
13000	Pruritis ani is an itching around the anus. It is also called anal itching.
13001	Pseudoachondroplasia is a kind of dwarfism that results to shortened limbs. It is an autosomal dominant genetic defect that occurs at the first 2 to 3 years of growth. The disorder is usually observed by a slower walking progress and wadding gait.
13002	Pseudocholinesterase deficiency is a hereditary abnormality of the blood plasma enzyme. Persons affected by the disorder tend to be sensitive to certain kinds of muscle relaxants and anesthetics. When anesthetic drugs are administered to these patients, they suffer from prolonged parlysis of the respiratory muscles, thus they require a respirator to generate breathing. Paralysis usually wears off eventually.
13003	This term refers to the persistent swelling which is caused by shaving. The term means false (pseudo) hair (follicle) inflammation (itis) of the beard (barbae). It is also referred to as PFB or term such as razor bumps. This often affects male faces especially with curly hair though it can also affect other parts of the body where hair is plucked or shaved.
13004	Pseudogout, also known as calcium pyrophosphate deposition disease is a rheumatologic disorder that consists of red, swollen joints that resemble gouty arthritis and acute synovitis.
13005	Pseudohermaphroditism is a congenital disorder where a person is born with secondary sex characteristics. Presentations of the disorder vary; in some cases external sex organs are intermediate between the vagina or penis, but there are those that aren't. Pseuodhermaphroditism isn't detected until puberty.
13006	Pseudohypoaldosteronism, or hyperchloremic acidosis is a kind of metablic acidosis the results to a reduced plasma bicarbonate concentration and higher levels of plasma chloride concentration (anion gap).
13007	Pseudohypoparathyroidism is medical state where the body no longer responds to the parathyroid hormone. Persons in this condition have high phosphate and low serum calcium, but the level of parathyroid hormones is high. The disorder leads to abnormalities in the metacarpals.
13008	Pseudomembranous colitis is the inflammation of the large intestine due to the use of antibiotics, which disrupt the balance of good and bad bacteria causing the harmful microorganisms to increase and spread in the colon. It is sometimes referred to as antibiotic-associated colitis or C. difficile colitis.
13009	Pseudomonas stutzeri infections are conditions brought about by the bacterium Pseudomonas stutzeri. It is a Gram-negative, single polar-flagellated bacterium found in soil. A denitirifying kind of bacterium that can degrade carbon tetrachloride when used in bioremediation.
13010	Pseudomotor cerebri, also known as intercranial pressure, is the severe headache a person suffers for no specific reason. Sudden pains occur in the different parts of the skull, which is due to pressures happening inside the brain.
13011	Pseudomyxoma peritonei is a malignant tumor that develops in the abdominal and pelvic areas. In this state tumor cells grow due to the bursting of a certain polyp with the appendix wall. When the tumor cells accumulate they make the abdominal area swollen, and the gastrointestinal functions become impaired.
13012	Pseudopapilledema is an atypical elevation of the eye's optic disc. It consists of acid mucopolysaccharides. Pseudopapilledema develops in severe cases of hyperopia and optic nerve drusden.
13013	Pseudovaginal perineoscrotal hypospadias (PPSH) is a abnormal configuration of an infant's external genitalia. The genitalia then appears to be a midway between a male's scrotum and a female's vagina.
13014	Pseudoxanthoma elasticum is a rare genetic disease that results to the fragmentation and calcification of the skin's fibers as well as the retina and the cardiovascular organs. In this disease, cutaneous lesions start to develop during childhood, but become more prominent during adulthood.
13015	Psittacosis is a contagious disease caused by Chlamydia psittaci, which can be transmitted from infected birds. It is also called parrot disease, chlamydiosis, or ornithosis.
13016	Psoriasis is a skin disease characterized by red spots in the skin that are usually painful and itchy. It is a lifelong condition that heavily affect the lifestyles of those with the disease. It has five types, and its severity can lead to psoriatic arthritis, where joints become affected.
13017	Psoriatic arthritis is a disease that spawns out of psoriasis. When a psoriasis-infected patient suffers from arthritis and joint pain, psoriatic arthritis has become present. It has five types, symmetric, assymetric, arthritis mutilans, spondylitis, and distal interphalengeal predominant.
13018	Psoriatic rheumatism is a inter-joint disease similar to psoriatic arthritis. Psoriatic rheumatism however attacks the hip joints that causes stress and discomfort to those affected by it. It is as well a muscular effect brought about by psoriasis.
13019	Psychogenic polydypsia is a kind of psychological disorder characterized by abusive water consumption. Because of this the patient's antiduretic hormones are reduced and urine will have low electrolyte concentration.
13020	Psychophysiologic disorders are classified as a group of disorders that affect one's mental, emotional and social capacities. It is quite difficult to determine psychophysiological disorders since they exhibit varying episodes and are caused by different reasons depending on the person afflicted by the condition. Among the common examples of psychophysiologic disorders are bipolar and multi-personality disorders.
13021	Psychosis refers to a serious medical condition due to disturbed brain functions. A person with psychosis exhibit detachment from his social environment, as well as demonstrate sudden changes in thinking, and behaving. Patients afflicted with psychosis tend to be harmful, thus they are room-restricted for isolation.
13022	Pterygium of the conjunctiva refers to a small growth in they eye due to the ultraviolet-light exposure. It can also develop in the nasal area when the sun's ray refract when they hit the cornea and become focused on the limbic area.
13023	Ptomaine Food Poisoning is the obsolete name of food poisoning. It is food poisoning caused by bacteria, viruses, environmental toxins, or toxins present within the food itself.
13024	Ptosis is the medical term used to describe drooping eyelids. Patients with ptosis are unable to lift either one or both of the upper eyelids to uncover the eye. The condition usually leads to an unattractive appearance thus patients want to have their damaged eyelids corrected.
13025	Pubic crabs, also known as crab lice or pubic lice, are parasitic insects that thrive on a person's pubic area. The lice cause irritation and itchiness due to bites and scratches, and the wounds due to scratching may lead to infections or typhus.
13026	Pubic lice, also known as crabs, are small wingless insects that thrive in the pubic region of one's body. They may also live in the armpits, eyelashes, clothing and bedding. Like other parasites, pubic lice feed on sucking blood and lay eggs on the base of the hair follicles.
13027	Puerperal fever is a bacteria-caused disease a woman can contract during the following conditions: childbirth, abortion, and miscarriage. It is also sometimes known as childbed fever.
13028	Pulmonary alveolar proteinosis is a lung disease where the abnormal accumulation of surfactants inside the alveoli interfere with respiration. The disease can occur with respect to other diseases such as pulmonary infection, myeloid leukemia and exposure to harmful chemicals.
13029	Pulmonary anthrax is inhaled lung anthrax. Among the different degrees of sickness, pulmonary anthrax is the most severe. Anthrax is a highly dangerous bacterial infection, ans is most often fatal. Other names of pulmonary anthrax include: Lung Anthrax, Inhaled anthrax, and Inhalation anthrax.
13030	Pulmonary edema is the abnormal build up of fluid in the lungs or increased blood pressure in the blood vessels in the lungs that forces fluids into the airs sacs.
13031	Pulmonary edema of mountaineers is a complication of lung problems and mountain sickness due to the lack of oxygen at places of high altitude. Also known as altitude sickness, the condition leads to hypoxemia and hypoxia, where less oxygen reaches the blood.
13032	When an artery in the lung becomes blocked, Pulmonary embolism may occur. Though the condition is not fatal in most cases, it is still a leading cause of hospital deaths and is an increasing risk to passengers on long airplane flights.
13033	Pulmonary fibrosis/granuloma is a rare lung disease that is demonstrated by the inflammation and stiffening of the lung tissues. Among its symptoms are shortness of breath, stiffening of the lungs, scarred lung tissues, respiratory problems, and finger clubbing.
13034	Pulmonary Heart Disease is a disorder that is sometimes called Cor Pulmonale. It is a modification, or an alteration, of the function and the tructure of the right ventricle of the heart. This rare disease is sometimes called Primary Pulmonary Hypertension.
13035	Pulmonary hypertension is the condition where high blood pressure occurs in the arteries in the lungs. The blood vessels that supply lungs with air and blood thicken, preventing the blood to pass through. Pressure begins to develop and the heart starts to pump harder, creating hypertension.
13036	Pulmonary incompetence pertains to a structural defect of a heart valve. This disorder happens when the pulmonary heart valve is closes poorly and causes blood from the pulmonary artery to backflow into the right ventricle. It is more commonly known as pulmonary valve insufficiency.
13037	Pulmonary sequestration is an abnormal growth within the tracheobronchial tree. This cystic growth may become a lung infection and can cause problems in the cardiopulmonary circulation.
13038	Pulmonary valve stenosis is the malformation of the either of the three leaflets of the pulmonary valve. When the valves become narrowed or leaky, and because of this they won't be able to pick up oxygen to deliver to the lungs.
13039	Pulmonic stenosis, cafe-au-lait spots is a rare disease also known as the Watson syndrome. It is characterized by reduced intelligence, short stature, and cafe-au-lait spots in the skin. Pulmonary valves also become narrowed. The disease is caused by problematic mutations in the NF1 gene.
13040	Pulseless disease, also known as Takayasu disease, is an abnormal inflammation of the aorta. The disease is common in women, especially those from Asian countries.
13041	Pure red cell aplasia is a kind of anemia that affects the red blood cells. In this disease, the bone marrow becomes unable to develop red blood cells.
13042	Purine nucleoside phophorylase deficiency is a rare autosomal recessive metabolic disorder that causes severe immunodeficiency problems. It is caused by the disruption of the purine nucleoside phosphorylase enzymatic pathway during gene development.
13043	Purpura is the term described to the presence of purple discolorations on the skin. It is caused by bleeding underneath the skin. This condition is common with other diseases such as typhus, meningitis and septicemia.
13044	Purpura simplex is a disorder characterized by the increased bruising from vascular fragility. This disorder affects mostly women, and is very common. This condition, in itself, is not considered serious. This disorder may characterize a heterogeneous group of disorders.
13045	Schoenlein-Henoch purpura is an inflammatory disease of the blood vessels. It consists of purple spots on the skin and can be an indication of the presence of other diseases such as interstinal hemorrhage, intussusception, and intestinal perforation.
13046	Thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura (TTP) is a rare medical condition that affects blood coagulation. The disease results to multiple blood clots in the blood vessels. This is caused by a deficiency of the enzyme ADAMTS13.
13047	PVL stands for Panton-Valentine leukocidin which is a cytotoxin. It has been said that the occurrence of PVL is due to the increased virulence of several strains of Staphylococcus aureus.
13048	Pyaemia is a kind of septicemia that causes the proliferation of abscesses in the different parts of the body. It is caused by the staphylococcus bacteria, and used to be a dreaded disease before the invention of antibiotics.
13049	Pyelonephritis is a kind of urinary tract infection that affects the pyelum or pelvis. It is sometimes called pyelitis.
13050	Pyloric stenosis is a serious condition of forceful spitting or vomitting due to the enlargement of pylorus preventing food from entering the small intestine.
13051	Pyoderma gangrenosum (PG) is a rare ulcerative cutaneous disease first described in 1930. It can develop after a patient suffers injury to the skin. It has two variants: atypical PG, which occurs on the hands, and the classic PG, which affects the legs.
13052	Pyomyositis is an infection of the skeletal muscles caused by bacteria. Affected muscles show pain and extreme swelling. It is common in tropical countries but also with patients with HIV.
13053	Pyridoxine deficiency is also known as B6 deficiency.
13054	This condition is an impulse to intentionally start fires to help relieve stress and usually includes relief or gratification afterwards. It is also related to arson and similar with those who start fires due to psychosis. Patients with this condition are referred to as Pyromaniacs. This condition often affects male.
13055	Pyrophobia is the term used to describe a person with an extreme or abnormal fear of fire.
13056	Pyropokilocytosis is a severe congenital disease that affects the red blood cells. It is a kind of hemolytic anemia and is under the disease group homozygous hereditary elliptocytosis. This disease causes a defect in spectrin which leads to an insufficient count of red blood cells.
13057	Pyrosis is the medical term used to describe heartburn. It is a burning sensation felt in the upper part of the abdomen. It can be brought about by rapid stomach functions as well as cardio-vascular abnormalities.
13058	Pyruvate dehydrogenase complex deficiency is a common neurodegenerative disorder that involves abnormal mitochondrial metabolism. It deprives the body from producing energy due to a dysfunctional lactate buildup. The main feature of this disease is the degeneration of gray matter with foci of necrosis as well as the proliferation of capillaries in the brainstem.
13059	Pyruvate kinase deficiency (PKD) is a common enzymatic disorder of the erythrocyte. It involves hematologic abnormalities leading to hemolytic anemia. When not treated, PKD can result to death due to anemia.
13060	Q fever is an infectious disease spread by infected cattle and other animals. It is caused by specie of bacteria named Coxiella burnetti. It first became known in the United States in 1999. When cultured, the bacteria can be a potential form of biological warfare, just like anthrax.
13061	Quackery arthritis is a collective term used to describe remedies and treatments that are not scientifically proven to be effective to cure arthritis. These remedies usually claim to have no side effects or made with all natural ingredients; however, the same materials used for the remedies can also impose adverse effects not just with arthritis, but also in the other body systems. Quackery arthritis is one marketing strategy used by firms or individuals to promote their products in the market.
13062	Quadriplegia or spinal cord injury is the parlysis of most of the body that includes the arms and legs.
13063	Neuromyotonia, also known as quantal squander syndrome, is a rare disease that consists of abnormal movements due to dysfunctional impulses at the peripheral nervous system. These unusual impulses may continue even during sleep. Intensive cramps, muscle pain and stiffness may be experienced at random instances, making it hard for the muscles to relax.
13064	Queensland tick typhus - also alternatively known as Spotted Fever or Rickettsial Spotted Fever - is a type of bacterial parasitic disorder.
13065	Query fever or Q fever is an acute or chronic infectious disease caused by a species of bacteria often found in sheep, goats, and cattle.
13066	Quinsy is also known as peritonsillar abscess or PTA. This is a pustule between the wall of the throat and the back of the tonsils.
13067	Rabbit fever is an infectious disease that attacks the skin, eyes, and lungs. It is also referred to as deerfly fever or tularemia.
13068	Rabies is a viral zoonotic neuro-invasive infection that often causes an inflammation of the brain (a condition known as acute encephalitis). Rabies is from the Latin word "rabies" meaning "rage, fury, or madness". Rabies can be fatal when affecting non-vaccinated humans, especially after neurological symptoms have occurred. However, the effects can be curbed if the patient is promptly vaccinated shortly after exposure to the virus. When the disease becomes symptomatic, however, it becomes invariably fatal.
13069	Rabson-Mendenhall syndrome is characterized by severe resistance to insulin, abnormal growth and development, acanthosis nigricans, and, in some cases, a hypertrophic pineal gland. In this rare insulin receptor disorder, the patient's body suffers from a disability to use insulin which is needed to control blood sugar levels.
13070	Radiation exposure is a sickness brought about by long-term exposure to low levels of radiation. This sickness often affects cell division. Radiation exposure is used to treat cancer, as the ionization process destroys cancer cells.
13071	Radiation sickness the damage to the body due to exposure to a very large dose of radiation usually received over a short period of time. The condition is also referred to as acute radiation sickness, acute radiation syndrome, or radiation poisoning.
13072	Radiophobia is a type of phobia characterized by an irrational fear of ionizing radiation. Most commonly, the term is associated with an extreme fear of X-rays. In addition, radiophobia is also used in the context of a neurological disorder, in which case the condition is used to reference a specific phobia such as a general fear of the use of nuclear energy. In general, fear of ionizing radiation may be considered natural or normal, since exposure to radiation poses significant risks to humans. However, the fear may escalate to such a degree that it becomes abnormal and irrational.
13073	Radon Poisoning: Radon is a radioactive gas that will damage cells if left exposed for a lone period of time. It cannot be seen, felt nor smelled and enters the body through respiration and causes the body damage. This condition is the 2nd leading cause of lung cancer.
13074	Raine syndrome is a rare disease in newborn infants characterized by intracranial calcification, or an abnormal increase in bone density, which can prove ultimately fatal. Raine syndrome is also alternatively called osteosclerotic bone dysplasia.
13075	Ramsay Hunt paralysis syndrome comprises three distinct neurological conditions described by James Ramsay Hunt in early 19th century - Ramsay Hunt syndrome type I, Ramsay Hunt syndrome type II, and Ramsay Hunt syndrome type III.
13076	Rapadilino syndrome is a rare genetic disorder, inherited via autosomal recessive trait, characterized by short stature, radial and patellar aplasia, cleft or arched palate, limb malformation, radial ray defects, and dislocated joints.
13077	It is also referred to as the Dumping syndrome. This condition is a collection of symptoms which is most likely to happen if an individual had undergone a surgery to remove most if not all of the part of the stomach or a bypass surgery. The condition occurs when the contents of the stomach that has not been digested are dumped in the small intestine too quickly.
13078	Also known as Chronic Focal Encephalitis (CFE), Rasmussen's encephalitis is a rare, progressive neurological disorder affecting a single cerebral hemisphere and usually occurring in children under the age of ten.
13079	Rat-bite fever in an infectious disease where in a bite from a rat transfers a bacteria or fungi infection. The symptoms of the fever will depend on the organism which caused the infection.
13080	Raynaud's phenomenon, or Raynaud's disease, is a vasospastic disorder characterized by a discoloration of the fingers, toes, and occasionally other extremities. Named after 19th century French physician Maurice Raynaud, Raynaud's disease occurs more commonly in women than in men. When Raynaud's disease occurs without any underlying associated disease, it is known as primary Raynaud's (or simply, Raynaud's disease). If it appears as part of another disease, it is known as secondary Raynaud's or Raynaud's phenomenon.
13081	Razor bumps are also referred to as shaving bumps. This condition usually affects men who have very curly hairs. It occurs when the tip of the curly hair grows back towards the hair follicle. It is also known as ingrown hairs. The ingrown hair causes a skin reaction and results to razor bumps. The condition is not an infection but is considered as a reaction of a "foreign body". The condition becomes worst when the hair is pulled out while shaving, shaving in a motion against the natural direction of the hair growth, or when using a multi-blade razor.
13082	Reactive arthritis (acronym: ReA) is a type of seronegative spondyloarthropathy and an autoimmune disorder that results from an infection in another part of the body. It is called "reactive" because it is caused by another infection; and "arthritis" because it presents with symptoms very similar to a range of conditions collectively called "arthritis". Other names for this condition include venereal arthritis, arthritis urethritica, and polyarteritis enterica.
13083	This disorder usually affects children which is a severe, uncommon disorder of attachment. This is distinguished by markedly disturbed and developmentally unsuitable ways of associating socially in perspective. This can condition can either be in the form of constant failure to begin or respond to social interactions.
13084	Reactive hypoglycemia is characterized by recurrent episodes of symptomatic hypoglycemia that occur within 2-4 hours after ingesting a high carbohydrate meal. The condition is believed to be a consequence of excessive insulin release triggered by glucose overload that persist even after the glucose from the meal has been digested or disposed by the body. Literally, hypoglycemia is low blood sugar. Most forms of hypoglycemia occur while fasting. However, reactive hypoglycemia is one that occurs right after eating a meal.
13085	Rebound headaches are cycles of headaches. They are also referred to as medication overuse headaches.
13086	Rectal abscess pertains to an abscess buildup in the rectal area, often due to bacterial infections that produce a localized accumulation of pus. The abscess is typically located either at the opening of the rectum or further up the rectum. Rectal abscess is also used alternately with the phrase ?anal abscess?.
13087	Rectal cancer pertains to carcinoma affecting the last 6 inches of colon or large intestine, which is the lower part of the digestive system. Colon cancer and rectal cancer are sometimes collectively called colorectal cancers.
13088	Rectal inflammation is a condition in which the lining of the rectum is inflamed. It is also referred to as proctitis.
13089	Rectal itching is an itching around the anus. It is also called pruritis ani or anal itching.
13090	Rectal neoplasm is a form of colorectal cancer affecting the rectum. Because it has no early symptoms, the disease is frequently under-diagnosed. When symptoms do occur, both the symptoms and the diagnostic tests required to confirm the diagnosis are considered embarrassing by most patients. However, early diagnosis of rectal neoplasm is crucial because colorectal cancer can prove ultimately fatal.
13091	Rectal Prolapse is a medical disorder where the walls of the rectum jut out of the anus and can be seen outside the body. There are 3 main kinds of rectal prolapse: full-thickness (the entire rectum protrudes), mucosal prolapse (only the rectal mucosa protrudes), and internal intussusceptions (rectum collapses but does not protrude from the anus)
13092	Solitary rectal ulcer syndrome is a condition in which a single ulcer typically occurs in the rectum that may cause rectal bleeding with straining or when having bowel movements.
13093	Rectocele is a condition in which the rectum's front wall bulges into the vagina.
13094	Rectosigmoid neoplasm is a tumor originating from the sigmoid colon or the upper rectal area. A rectosigmoid neoplasm may be benign or malignant.
13095	Rectum cancer is a kind of cancer wherein malignant cells take over the rectal tissues. In this condition the cancer cells that invade the rectal tissues cause abnormal growths in the blood vessels causing rectal obstruction. These cells can also spread in the different organs of the body.
13096	Red eye also called subconjunctival hemorrhage, is a harmless condition in which the white of the eye appears red due to a broken tiny blood vessel.
13097	Red measles, commonly known as German measles, is a short-lived contagious disease presented by red spots and inflammation of the lymph glands located behind the ears. The disease usually lasts from 14 to 21 days.
13098	Reflex sympathetic dystrophy syndrome is a form of a chronic neurological condition commonly known as Complex Regional Pain Syndrome (CRPS). Reflex sympathetic dystrophy is Type I of CRPS and does not demonstrate any distinct nerve lesions. (Conversely, Causalgia or type II CRPS presents with evident nerve damage.)
13099	Reflux esophagitis is a symptom of gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD) characterized by inflammatory changes in the esophageal lining caused by reflux of gastric acid into the esophagus. Esophagitis (also known as Oesophagitis) is a general term for inflammation of the esophagus. When esophagitis is caused by GERD (gastroesophageal reflux disease), it is known as reflux esophagitis. Reflux esophagitis commonly develops as a consequence of poor functioning of the musculature of the lower esophageal segment, which controls the reflux of the stomach's contents.
13100	Refractive errors are conditions in which the light passing through eye often loses focus. This is a cause for vision acuity. This condition is due to genetic or environmental factors, and the effects can either lead to blurry vision, astigmatism, myopia and hyperopia. The condition can be diagnosed by visual eye examination, retinoscopy and by the use of an automated refraction factor to measure the errors of eye focus. Treatment is by wearing prescription glasses, and contact lenses, as well as undergoing refractive eye surgery.
13101	Refsum disease is a group of genetic disorders called leukodystrophies where the white matter of the brain is damaged, affecting motor movements. Refsum disease usually begins in childhood or adolescence and progresses through time.
13102	Also known as Crohn's disease, regional enteritis is a chronic, episodic, inflammatory bowel disease (IBD), believed to be autoimmune in origin. Regional enteritis may affect any part of the gastrointestinal tract, from the mouth to the anus. Consequently, symptoms vary among afflicted patients.
13103	Reiter's syndrome is a medical condition characterized by three seemingly unrelated symptoms: redness of the eyes, arthritis, and urinary tract problems. It is a form of seronegative spondyloarthropathy, causing inflammation throughout the body, particularly in parts of the spine and at joints connecting the tendons and bones. Reiter's syndrome is also referred to as a form of reactive arthritis, because the resulting arthritis occurs as a reaction to an infection that started in a different part of the body.
13104	Reiters arthritis is a form of inflammatory arthritis that develops complications in the urinary tract, bowels and genital system. This kind of arthritis has two kinds: one that is sexually transmitted and another that is caused by salmonella.
13105	Relapsing fever is an infection transferred by a tick or a louse which is characterized by repeated episodes of fever. Other names for relapsing fever are tick-borne relapsing fever and louse-borne relapsing fever.
13105	Relapsing fever is a type of fever that keeps recurring. It is often joined by headaches, muscle pain, joint aches and nausea. There are two kinds: tick-borne (TBRF) and louse-borne relapsing fever (LBRF).
13106	Relapsing Polychondritis is a rare and chronic condition where the cartilage of different tissues become inflamed. Part of the body affect may include the ears, the nose, windpipe, spine and joints. Because the heat, eyes and blood vessels have similar make-ups, these can also be affected.
13107	Renal agenesis is an inborn condition in which an infant is born without one or both kidneys. The absence of one kidney at birth is called unilateral renal agenesis; while the absence of both kidneys is called bilateral renal agenesis.
13108	Renal artery stenosis is a condition characterized by the narrowing of the renal artery, often as a result of atherosclerosis or fibromuscular dysplasia. The narrowing of the renal artery obstructs the blood flow to the target kidney, which leads to hypertension and atrophy of the affected kidney, which in turn causes renal artery stenosis, and ultimately to renal failure if untreated.
13109	Renal Calculi, more commonly known as kidney stones, refer to crystal aggregations or solid secretions of dissolved minerals in urine. Stones or calculi often form inside the kidneys or bladder. The presence of calculi in kidneys is known as nephrolithiasis; whereas the presence of calculi in the urinary tract is known as urolithiasis.
13110	Renal cancer means cancer of the kidney; renal being the Latin word for kidney. The most common form of renal cancer is renal cell carcinoma, which starts in the renal tubule.
13111	Renal carbuncle is the medical term for abscess of the kidney, or a localized collection of pus in the kidney.
13112	Renal cell carcinoma (acronym: RCC) is the most common type of renal or kidney cancer. It starts in the renal tubule and may spread to other parts of the body if undiagnosed early.
13113	Renal colic is a painful urinary system condition commonly due to kidney stones. Colic is a misnomer since the pain in this type of disorder is chronic, not intermittent. There are 2 varieties: dull and acute.
13114	Renal dysplasia mesomelia radiohumeral fusion, also called Ulbright Hodes, is an extremely rare syndrome characterized by abnormalities in kidney development and various defects in the arm bone.
13115	Renal glycosuria is also referred to as renal glucosuria. It is a rare genetic syndrome characterized by the excretion of simple sugar glucose in the urine despite low or normal blood glucose levels. When the kidneys function normally, glucose is eliminated in the urine only when glucose in the blood is abnormally high. However, in patients with renal glycosuria, glucose is abnormally excreted in the urine as a consequence of a malfunction in the renal tubules.
13116	Renal osteodystrophy is described as a bone pathology marked by defective mineralization as a consequence of kidney disease. Renal oseodystrophy has two distinct forms, namely high bone turnover and low bone turnover.
13117	Simply put, renal tuberculosis is the kidney affected by tuberculosis. This is normally because of some haematogenous seeding from pulmonary diseases, although it is secondary to a tuberculous infection of the gastrointestinal tract or bone. By the time this condition is diagnosed, the primary laceration in the lungs might be calcified.
13118	Renal tubular acidosis (RTA) is characterized by the accumulation of acid in the body as a consequence of the failure of the kidney to adequately acidify urine. The term renal tubular acidosis is attributed mostly to defective urinary acidification in otherwise well-functioning kidneys. There are different forms of renal tubular acidosis, each of which has different causes and symptoms.
13119	Repetitive strain injury (RSI) pertains to a range of conditions that result from the overuse of certain tools such as a computer, guitar, or knife, or other activities that require movement repetition. RSI commonly affects the muscles, tendons, and nerves of the hands, arms, and upper back. RSI is also alternatively known as occupational overuse syndrome, cumulative trauma disorder (CTD), or work related upper limb disorder (WRULD).
13120	Respiratory acidosis is the abnormal increase of acidity in the blood as a consequence of decreased ventilation of the pulmonary alveoli, which leads to an increase in carbon dioxide concentration (PaCO2). Respiratory acidosis can be either acute or chronic.
13121	Respiratory diphtheria pertains to an acute bacterial illness infecting the throat.
13121	Respiratory Diphtheria is an acute, toxin-mediated disease caused by virus called Corynebacterium diphtheriae. There are 2 main forms: respiratory and cutaneous. This kind of condition lasts for several days.
13122	Respiratory failure is a medical term describing the inability of the lungs to accurately and properly function. Respiratory failure can be shown by observing the oxygen (too low) and carbon dioxide (too high) levels in the blood due to a break down in gas exchange (the process of exchange between air spaces and blood in the lungs) or the movement of air in and out of the lungs.
13123	Respiratory infection is more commonly known as upper respiratory infection of (URI). This is a type of infection of the head and chest caused by a virus. The nose, throat, sinuses, ears and airways are affected. This infection usually lasts a couple of weeks.
13124	This virus causes infections in the lungs and respiratory tract. This virus commonly affects children by the age of 2 and even adults. Infection can severe especially when it infects premature babies and infants with underlying health conditions.
13125	Respiratory system cancer is a range of carcinomas commonly found in the respiratory system. Respiratory system cancer may encompass all organs involved in the breathing process, including: lung cancer, mouth cancer, oral cancer, throat cancer, tongue cancer, larynx cancer, pharynx cancer, and bronchial cancer.
13126	Restless legs syndrome (RLS), also known as Wittmaack-Ekbom's syndrome, is a progressive neurological disease characterized by an irresistible urge to move one's body to halt odd or uncomfortable sensations. This condition usually affects the legs, but can also affect the arms and torso.
13127	Restrictive cardiomyopathy is the least usual cardiomyopathy. It is called as such due to the fact that it limits the heart from extending and filling it with blood correctly. The firm walls of the chambers of the heart prevent them from properly filling even though the rhythmicity and contractility of the heart may be regular. That is why blood flow is decreased and the blood that usually enters the heart is backed up in the circulatory system. Over time, patients with restrictive cardiomyopathy acquire heart failure.
13128	Reticuloendotheliosis is characterized by a lymphoma (or cancer that arises from the lymphocytes) of a part of the immune system known as the reticuloendothelial tissue. Leukemic reticuloendotheliosis, also known as hairy cell leukemia, is the most common type of reticuloendotheliosis. In this form of chronic leukemia, the malignant B-lymphocytes are observed in the spleen, bone marrow, and peripheral blood. When analyzed under a microscope, the malignant cells appear to be covered with minute hair-like protrusions.
13129	Retinal degeneration refers to the deterioration of the retinal tissue. The degeneration of the retina may occur as a consequence of a number of factors, including vein or artery occlusion, diabetic retinopathy, and hereditary RLF/ROP disease, among others. Several types of progressive retinal degeneration exist in varying degrees or severities. Examples are retinoschisis, retinitis pigmentosa, lattic degeneration, and macular degeneration.
13130	Retinal detachment is an eye disorder there the retina peels away from the core layer of supporting tissue. At first, detachment may be localized, but if not treated quickly the whole retina may be detached. This can lead to loss of vision or blindness.
13131	Retinitis pigmentosa (RP) pertains to a group of genetic eye conditions characterized by progressive night blindness preceded by an extended period of tunnel vision. In retinitis pigmentosa, abnormalities of the photoreceptors or the presence of retinal pigment epithelium (RPE) cause progressive visual loss in affected patients.
13132	Retinoblastoma pertains to cancer of the retina that affects children. If untreated, retinoblastoma is almost invariably fatal.
13133	Retinoschisis refers to the abnormal splitting of the neurosensory layers of the retina. The splitting usually occurs in the outer plexiform layer. In rare cases, retinoschisis results in vision loss. However, in most cases, it remains asymptomatic.
13134	Retractile testicle is a condition in which the testicle glides back and forth between the scrotum and the groin.
13135	Retrograde ejaculation is release of semen into the bladder instead of through the penis during orgasm resulting in the ejaculation of very little or no semen.
13136	Also known as retinopathy of prematurity (ROP), retrolental fibroplasia (RLF), is an eye disease that primarily affects prematurely born babies.
13137	Retroperitoneal fibrosis, also known as Ormond's disease, is a condition in which the fibrous tissue proliferates in the retroperitoneum, or the compartment of the body containing the renal tract, kidneys, aorta, and various other structures.
13138	Rett syndrome is a neurodevelopmental disorder mostly affecting females. This disease is categorized as a pervasive development disorder by the DSM-IV (Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders).
13139	Revesz Debuse syndrome is an extremely rare condition characterized mostly by anemia, retinal disease, and anomalies in the central nervous system.
13140	Reye's syndrome is a disease commonly occurring in children characterized by a range of several detrimental effects to many organs in the body, particularly the liver and the brain. If undiagnosed and untreated early, it can be potentially fatal.
13141	Reynolds syndrome is a rare disease, autoimmune in origin, characterized by scleroderma (i.e. hardened skin) and cirrhosis of the liver. This syndrome is closely associated with the combination of primary biliary cirrhosis and progressive systemic sclerosis. In some cases, Reynolds syndrome has been associated with hemolytic anemia and SjÃ·gren's syndrome. Reynolds syndrome is named after Telfer B. Renolds, an American physician who first described it. Clinical presentations of Reynolds syndrome include elevated levels of alkaline phosphatase in the blood, jaundice, pruritus, and telangietasias. At the onset of Reynolds syndrome, Reynaud's phenomenon may occur as an early symptom.
13142	Rh disease, a condition affecting pregnant mothers, is one of the identified causes of hemolytic disease of the newborn (or HDN), and may range from mild to severe. In mild forms, Rh disease may cause mild anemia with reticulocytosis in the fetus. In moderate or severe forms, Rh disease can cause a more distinct anemia as well as erythroblastosis fetalis in the fetus. In its most severe form, the disease can lead to hydrops fetalis, morbus haemolyticus neonatorum, or even stillbirth. Rh disease is also alternatively called Rh (D) disease, RhD Hemolytic Disease of the Newborn, Rhesus disease, Rhesus D Hemolytic Disease of the Newborn or RhD HDN.
13143	Rhabdoid tumor pertains to a very rare and extremely aggressive tumor commonly occurring in children ages 2 to 13 years. Initially, rhabdoid tumor was believed to be a variant of Wilms' tumor. However, recent studies have shown that rhabdoid tumor is an entirely separate entity. The location of this highly malignant tumor may be intraventicular, supratentorial, or infratentorial.
13144	Rhabdomyolysis is described as the rapid breakdown (i.e. lysis) of the skeletal muscle tissue (i.e. rhabdomyo) as a consequence of a prior injury to muscle tissue.
13145	Rhabdomyosarcoma is a rare form of cancer of the sarcoma (or connective tissues) commonly occurring in children ages 1 to 5 and, in some cases, teenagers ages 15 to 19. The malignant cells are believed to originate from skeletal muscle progenitors. The cancer may also attach itself to muscle tissues, wrap around intestines, or affect any other areas. The cancerous mass may resemble a 6-8 week old embryo in younger children. In teens and older children, the cancer may be as large as a 10-12 week old embryo.
13146	Embryonal rhabdomyosarcoma, also alternatively called sarcoma botryoides, is a rare form of vaginal cancer affecting female infants and children under 8 years old.
13147	Rhesus isoimmunisation is a condition concerning the Rhesus (Rh) factor. This is a protein found in most people's red blood cells. A person who does not have this factor is considered Rh negative, a person who does is Rh positive. An Rh negative pregnant mother exposed to blood that is Rh positive produces antibodies to the factor. This is called isoimmunization. If this happens to a mother and fetus, the antibody may cross the placenta and attach to the fetal red cells and destroyed by the fetal spleen. This condition is more commonly known as Rh isoimmunisation.
13148	Rheumatic fever pertains to an inflammatory disease which develops as a consequence of complications from a Group A streptococcal infection (e.g. scarlet fever and strep throat, etc.). Rheumatic fever commonly affects children 6 to 15 years old.
13149	Rheumatic Heart Disease pertains to a complication of rheumatic fever. This disease damages the entire heart and its membranes. It is a permanent damage to the heart due to a damaged heart valve. This disease used to be a serious form of heart disease for children and adolescents.
13150	Rheumatism, also known as rheumatic disorder, is a general term encompassing medical problems affecting the bones, kidney, joints, skin, heart, and lungs. While rheumatism is used colloquially or in a historical context, the word no longer appears in strict medical or technical literature. To date, the word "rheumatism" does not apply to a recognized disorder in modern medicine. While the term covers a wide range of medical problems, it is most commonly used in reference to fibromyalgia syndrome and/or arthritis-like symptoms. However, it is important to note that rheumatism itself is neither a recognized disease nor a distinct entity.
13151	Rheumatoid arthritis is a chronic, potentially disabling autoimmune disease wherein the immune system attacks the joints, causing an inflammation in the joints (i.e. arthritis) as well as in other parts of the body (commonly in the lungs and the skin).
13152	Rheumatoid spondylitis is a chronic inflammatory arthritis. It is also referred to as ankylosing spondylitis or spondylitis.
13153	Rhinitis is a condition describing the irritation and swelling of the inner part of the nose. This condition is also seen to affect the throat, eyes and ears. It is also associated with sleeping problems. Rhinitis can also be triggered by an allergy. There are two types: allergic and no-allergic rhinitis.
13154	Hay fever is a condition resulting from an allergic reaction to indoor or outdoor airborne allergens, such as dust mites, pollen, or pet dander.
13155	Rhinophyma is a medical condition identified by an overgrowth of the sebaceous glands of the nose. It is part of a skin disorder called rosacea. In women, sensitive capillaries result in flushing and dilated small red veins made visible on the surface of the skin.
13156	Rhupus is a disease characterized by rheumatism and lupus. It is a rare condition in which the hands of an affected person become deformed due to the growth of cysts and calcification of the cartilage. The main symptoms of this illness are numbness and immobility of the affected area. Treatment for the rhupus requires surgery.
13157	Rib-gap syndrome, also known as cerebrocostomandibular syndrome, is a rare autosomal recessive disorder that features an abnormally small jaw, deformed upper jaw, a refracted tongue, and rib dysplasia. These deformities usually lead to respiratory problems as well as moderate to severe mental retardation.
13158	Rib cage inflammation, also known as costochondritis, is the swelling of the ribs due to injuries and other abnormalities experienced by the chest.
13159	Riboflavin deficiency pertains to a lack of Riboflavin, which is another name for vitamin B2. This disorder occurs when the patient does not have sufficient amount of vitamin B2 in the body. This deficiency is also known as ariboflavinosis.
13160	Richter syndrome is an extremely rare disease characterized by the transformation of chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) into a rapidly progressive form of lymphoma. Also known as Richter transformation, this disorder is a type of high grade non Hodgkin's lymphoma affecting patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia. To date, only 1 in 20 documented cases of CLL leads to Richter syndrome.
13161	Ricin poisoning is a toxic effect experience by a person due to inhalation or intake of ricin, a protein toxin found in castor beans. It can be potentially painful when taken in large doses.
13162	Rickets is a disease characterized by the softening of the bones in children, which can potentially lead to fractures and deformity. Although rickets can affect adults, most documented cases are those of malnourished or undernourished children living in developing countries.
13163	Rickettsial diseases refer to a group of disorders caused by Rickettsiae, a type of microorganism that can be a cross between virus and bacteria. Rickettsiae can only survive inside cells and cause disease by damaging the blood vessels in various organs and tissues. In severe cases, multiple organs and/or tissues may be affected. Rickettsial diseases vary in extent and severity, ranging from mild conditions to potentially fatal infections. Because they can be life-threatening, afflicted patients must seek emergency treatment or urgent medical care if Rickettsial diseases are suspected.
13164	Rickettsialpox is a disease commonly presented by fever, lethargy, headache, skin rashes, and damage to the blood vessels. The disease is caused parasitic arthropods that thrive in the body causing ruptures in the lymph nodes. Rickettsialpox can be detected by serological tests and can be treated by tetracycline.
13165	Rickettsiosis is a bacterial infection caused by microorganisms belonging to the order Rickettsiales. Types of Rickettsiosis vary in terms of degree and severity. The most common examples are Rocky Mountain spotted fever, Rickettsialpox, and typhus, among others. Rickettsiae, the organisms that cause Rickettsiosis, can only survive and multiply intracellularly. They were first discovered in 1909 by Howard Ricketts, an American Researcher.
13166	Rift Valley Fever (RVF) is a type of viral zoonosis; meaning, it primarily affects domestic livestock, but can be transmitted to humans. It is most commonly spread among humans through bites of infected mosquitoes or direct contact with infected animals.
13167	Right heart failure is an alternate name for this condition is congestive heart failure - right-sided. It is defined by the failure of the right side of the heart ventricle loses its ability to pump blood efficiently. This disorder is caused when the right ventricle does not function properly and the blood backs up into other areas of the body causing congestion.
13168	Riley-Day syndrome, more commonly known as familiar dysautonomia (FD), is characterized by a disorder of the autonomic nervous system. Riley-Day syndrome commonly affects the survival and development of sympathetic, (some) parasympathetic, and sensory neurons of the autonomic and sensory nervous system.
13169	Ringworm, also called Tinea, pertains to a skin infection characterized by a reddish or brownish bumpy patch of skin that's usually lighter at the center, thus resembling a ring-like appearance. Ringworms can exist in any part of the body.
13170	Ringworm of the body is a fungal infection affecting the top layer of the skin. It is also referred to as tinea corporis.
13171	Ringworm of the scalp is a fungal infection affecting the scalp, skin, and nails. It is also known as tinea capitis.
13172	The medical term for this condition is Onchocerciasis which is the world's second most leading infectious cause of blindness. Basically it is a skin and eye infection which is caused by the helmith (worm) Onchocerca volvulus. The black fly that carries the worm is only seen in parts of Africa, South America and Middle East.
13173	Robinow syndrome is a very rare genetic disorder defined by vertebral segmentation, short-limbed-dwarfism, as well as distinct abnormalities in the face, head, and external genitalia. Robinow syndrome has two known forms, dominant and recessive. The dominant form is most common and present with moderate manifestations of known symptoms. Recessive Robinow, on the other hand, presents with more distinct skeletal abnormalities. Robinow syndrome is also alternatively called Robinow dwarfism, Robinow-Silverman-Smith syndrome, fetal face syndrome, fetal facies syndrome, mesomelic dwarfism-small genitalia syndrome, or acral dysostosis with facial and genital abnormalities.
13174	Rocky Mountain spotted fever is the most severe form of rickettsial illness. It is most frequently reported in the USA, but has also been known to occur in Central and South America.
13175	Also known as nemaline myopathy and nemaline rod myopathy, rod myopathy pertains to a congenital, hereditary neuromuscular disease characterized by progressive and non-progressive muscle weakness of varying severity. Rod myopathy is clinically classified into several groups, ranging from mild (typical), intermediate, severe, to adult-onset. However, this categorization is somewhat ambiguous, with categories commonly overlapping.
13176	Rodent ulcer is a type of cancer of the skin accounting for about 75% of all skin cancers. This is a slow-growing skin tumor in the basal skin cells. The cancer cells that cause ulcers gradually enlarge gnawing at the normal cells, thus the name rodent ulcer.
13177	Romano-Ward syndrome is a major variant of a heart condition known as long QT syndrome, a condition that causes the cardiac muscle to take abnormally longer to recharge between beats. Romano-Ward syndrome is characterized by a disruption of the heart's normal rhythm.
13178	This condition is very common but oftentimes misunderstood which commonly affects women. The condition starts as erythema (redness or flushing) on the center of the face and across the cheeks, nose or forehead. This condition is sometimes confused and co-exist with acne vulgaris and/or seborrheic dermatitis.
13179	Rosai-Dorfman disease pertains to a rare, benign condition characterized by an excess in the production of histiocytes, which build up in the lymph nodes throughout the body. The elevated histiocytes typically accumulate in the lymphadenopathy of the neck. In addition, histiocytes may also build up outside the lymph nodes, particularly in the skin, bone, and upper respiratory tract. Rosai-Dorfman disease presents with a variety of symptoms depending on the site or area of histiocyte accumulation.
13180	Roseola infantum is a benign disease affecting children, commonly under two years old, characterized by a temporary rash that occurs following a fever that lasts for three days. Roseola infantum is more commonly known as exanthem subitum, which literally means "sudden rash". Other names for the disease are sixth disease (because it is the sixth condition to cause rashes in children), baby measles (a more confusing name), and three day fever. The origin of roseola infantum was unknown for a long time. Recently, however, research findings have revealed that the disease is caused by two human herpesviruses, namely HHV-7 (Roseolovirus) and HHV-6 (Human Herpesvirus Six).
13181	The Ross river virus is referred to as the arbovirus of the genus Alphavirus. Infections in humans are caused by an epidemic polyarthritis which is commonly known as Ross River Fever. In the years 1995-2004, it infected an average of about 4,000 people annually in Australia. The virus is widespread to the parts of Australia and Papua New Guinea and was later observed in an outburst in the South Pacific in the years 1979-1980. The infection happens most on adults and rarely affects children.
13182	Rotator cuff injury involves any type of irritation or damage to the rotator cuff muscles or tendons.
13183	Rotavirus is an infection of a member of the Reoviridae family, it is a genus of double-stranded RNA virus. Ratovirus has 7 species simply named, A, B, C, D, E, F and G, the most common being Ratovirus A. This virus causes severe diarrhea among infants and toddlers.
13184	Rotor syndrome is a rare bilirubin disorder inherited via the autosomal recessive trait. Named after Arturo Belleza Rotor, a Filipino internist, Rotor syndrome is a relatively benign disease that starts soon after birth or during early childhood.
13185	Also known as German measles, Rubella pertains to a relatively common childhood infection which literally means "little red" in Latin. While it is more common in children, it also affects adults. Affected adults recover more slowly than children.
13186	Congenital rubella syndrome (or CRS) can affect a developing fetus of a pregnant woman who has been infected by rubella during the first trimester of her pregnancy. If the mother is infected 0-28 days before conception, there is a 43% risk of the fetus being affected. If infection occurs 0-12 days after conception, chances of CRS affecting the infant are 51%. If the infection occurs 13-26 weeks after conception, the chances of CRS affecting the fetus are 23%. However, if the infection occurs in the last trimester, specifically in the 26th to 20th week after conception, the infants are not generally affected.
13187	Rubeola, more commonly known as measles, is a highly contagious disease caused by a virus and spread through respiration.
13188	Rubinstein-Taybi syndrome, also called Broad Thumb-Hallux syndrome, is a condition characterized by moderate to severe mental retardation, short stature, broad thumbs and first toes, distinctive facial features, and short stature. A distinction can be made between Rubinstein-Taybi like syndrome and Rubinstein-Taybi syndrome; the latter has gene promoter involvement.
13189	Rumination disorder is a type of eating disorder in which the affected patient brings up partially digested food, and then chews it again before either swallowing or spitting it out. Originally named "childhood rumination disorder", this chronic condition commonly affects children 3 to 12 months of age and may cause malnutrition. But while rumination primarily occurs in infancy or childhood, it may also affect adults. In some animals known as ruminants, rumination is a normal part of digestion. However, in humans, this behavior is distinctly abnormal and can be potentially dangerous because the esophagus can be damaged by frequent exposure to stomach acids. Rumination is linked to other eating disorders, including anorexia nervosa, and is believed to be related to the sufferer's apprehension or stress after eating a normal meal. For individuals with bulimia or purging compulsions, rumination may occur when the patient is unable to throw up. To date, there is no known cure or case for rumination. In some cases, the patients may simply "grow out of it" (or outgrow the condition), but there is no guarantee the affected patients will do so.
13190	Chondormalacia patellae, commonly known as runner's knee is a degenerative disorder of the cartilage that protects the knee cap. This disease is characterized by extreme pain on the knees that is felt mostly by people who are into athletic sports such as basketball, running and soccer.
13191	Ruptured spleen causes a life-threatening bleeding.
13192	Russell-Silver syndrome is a rare disorder that affects slow development, low birth weight, and obvious differences in the size of the sides of the body.
13193	Sabinas brittle hair syndrome is a hereditary disease, autosomal recessive in pattern, affecting the integumentary system (the organ system that primarily protects the body from damage - including skin, nails, hair, sweat glands, etc.). Also alternatively known as Sabinas syndrome or brittle hair-mental deficit syndrome, this disease is named after a small community in northern Mexico (Sabinas) where it was first observed. Classic presentations of Sabinas brittle hair syndrome include brittle hair, nail dysplasia, and mild mental retardation. In addition, affected patients show increased copper/zinc ratio, reduced hair cystine levels, and presence of arginosuccinic acid in the urine and blood.
13194	Saccharopinuria, also known as saccharopinemia or saccharopine dehydrogenase deficiency, pertains to an excess of saccharopine in the urine. Saccharopinuria is a variant form of hyperlysinemia and attributed to a partial deficiency of saccharopine dehydrogenase, a type of enzyme that plays a secondary role in lysine metabolic pathway. The result is a dangerous accumulation of urinary saccharopine. Individuals with saccharopinuria typically have short stature, elevated urinary lysine, increased urinary citrulline, excessive urinary histidine, and spastic diplegia.
13195	Sacral agenesis, also known as hypoplasia of the sacrum or caudal regression syndrome, is a rather obscure and extremely rare congenital condition characterized by spinal deformity in the sacrum (i.e. the spine's caudal partition). It affects an estimated one in 15,000 births.
13196	Sacral dimple is a congenital indentation in the skin on the lower back, which is often located above the crease between the buttocks. It is also known as pilonidal dimples.
13197	Sacroiliitis is a condition in which one or both of the joints that connect the lower spine and pelvis are inflammed.
13198	Saethre-Chotzen syndrome is an extremely rare congenital condition inherited via the autosomal dominant trait. The most characteristic feature of this disease is caraniosynostosis, a symptom described as premature closure of 1 or more of the sutures between the bones of the skull, occurs.
13199	Sakati syndrome encompasses a group of rare genetic diseases collectively known as Acrocephalopolysyndactyly or ACPS. Sakati syndrome, along with all known types of ACPS, is characterized by the premature closure of the cranial sutures (fibrous joints) between certain bones of the skull. This premature closure, known as craniosynostosis, leads to: acrocephaly (pointed appearance of the top of the head); syndactyly (webbing or fusion) of digits; and appearance of more than normal digits (polydactyly). In addition, Sakati syndrome is linked to defects in the bones of the legs, congenital heart defects, as well as other complications. The disease is speculated to develop as a consequence of a sporadic mutation that occurs randomly for unknown reasons.
13200	Salivary gland cancer is a rare carcinoma affecting the salivary glands of the mouth, throat, or neck.
13201	Salla disease is an autosomal recessive congenital disease affecting lysosomal storage, resulting in early physical impairment and mental abnormalities. It is also alternatively known as Finnish type sialuria or sialic acid storage disease.
13202	Salmonella food poisoning is a type of food poisoning caused by Salmonella bacterium. Its effect is the inflammation of the lining of the stomach and intestines called gastroenteritis.
13203	Salmonellosis (Salmonella infections) is a type of infection caused by Salmon ella bacteria.
13204	Salpingitis is an infection in the fallopian tubes, often synonymous to PID. There are 2 types: acute and chronic salpingitis. Acute salpingitis happens when the fallopian tubes are swollen and stick together causing a blockage. Chronic salpingitis is milder but lasts longer that acute salpingitis. It may also result in hydrosalpinx. Salpingitis usually involves many types of organisms or is polymicrobal.
13205	San Joaquin Valley fever is an alternative name for coccidiodomydiosis. This is a fungal infection that once became endemic in the areas of California, Arizona, Nevada, Texas and New Mexico.
13206	Sandfly Fever, otherwise known as the papaataci fever, the phlebotomus fever, and three-day fever is a medical condition referring to the viral infections from sandfly bites.
13207	Sandhoff disease is a genetic autosomal recessive disorder affecting lipid storage, leading to progressive damage in the nerve cells of the brain and spinal cord.
13208	Sanfilippo syndrome pertains to a hereditary metabolism disorder characterized by the body's inability to properly break down complex sugar molecules called glycosaminoglycans. Sanfilippo syndrome belongs to a group of diseases called mucopolysaccharidoses (MPS), and is sometimes called MPS II.
13209	Santavuori disease is a form of Neuronal Ceroid Lipofuscinoses, a genetic disorder marked by an excessive accumulation of lipopigments (lipofuscin) in the tissues. It is also alternatively known as Infantile Neuronal Ceroid Lipofuscinoses (INCL). Santavuori disease is extremely rare, with only 60 documented cases worldwide. Inherited via the recessive autosomal trait, this disease is degenerative, progressive, and often fatal.
13210	SAPHO syndrome encompasses a range of chronic inflammatory bone diseases usually associated with skin changes.
13211	Sarcoidosis, also known as Besnier-Boeck disease, pertains to a disorder of the immune system characterized by non-caseating garnulomas that mostly affects young adults. The term is from the Greek words "sark" and "oid", meaning "flesh-like".
13212	Pulmonary sarcoidosis is a chronic form of sarcoidosis, a rare systemic disorder characterized by inflammation of the lungs. Approximately 90% of documented sarcoidosis cases occur in the lungs (i.e. pulmonary sarcoidosis); however, the disease can affect almost any organ in the body.
13213	Sarcoma is one form of primary bone cancer that primarily results in immature tissue in bone marrow. It is also called Ewing's sarcoma, which often occur in children, adolescents, and young adults, from 10 to 20 years old.
13214	Granulocytic sarcoma is a form of chloroma, characterized by the appearance of a solid tumor consisting of myeloblasts (i.e. or white blood cells that are described as immature and malignant). It is also alternatively known as granulocytic sarcoma or (more appropriately) extramedullary myeloid tumor. Basically, a chloroma is a solid collection of leukemic cells found outside the bone marrow; in particular, it is an extramedullary symptom of acute myeloid leukemia.
13215	Sarcosinemia is a condition in which the concentration of sarcosine in the blood plasma and urine are abnormally elevated. Sarcosine is a type of amino acid found in muscles and other body tissues.
13216	Satoyoshi syndrome is an extremely rare progressive disease believed to be of autoimmune etiology. To date, there are less than 40 documented cases of Satoyoshi syndrome worldwide.
13217	Sometimes this condition is referred to as savantism. Savant syndrome is a rare condition where in person with developmental disorder has one or more fields of expertise, brilliance or ability that are different from an individual's overall limitation. This condition can be hereditary and can also be acquired and coexists with other developmental disabilities.
13218	Say Meyer syndrome is a familial condition characterized by short stature, trigonocephaly, motor impairment, and mental retardation. Say Meyer syndrome is named after Burhan Say, a Turkish medical geneticist, and Julia Meyer, an American physician, who both discovered the disorder.
13219	Scabies is a contagious ectoparasite infection of the skin characterized by intense itching, superficial burrows, and secondary infections. The term comes from the Latin word "scabere" which literally means "scratch".
13220	Scabies is an infectious skin disease that is caused by small itch mites that thrive on the skin's epidermis. The waste products of these mites often cause irritation. This is a common parasitic disease among children especially with those living in poor sanitary environments.
13221	SCAD deficiency (short-chain acyl-coenzyme A dehydrogenase deficiency) pertains to a defect in the oxidation of fatty acids in the body. This disorder affects enzymes that are necessary in breaking down a group of fats known as short-chain fatty acids.
13222	Scalded mouth syndrome is a condition in which the tongue, lips, or most areas of the mouth feels a burning pain without obvious reasons. It is sometimes referred to as burning mouth syndrome, stomatodynia, burning tongue syndrome, burning lips syndrome, and glossodynia.
13223	SCARF syndrome is a very rare disorder characterized by skeletal defects, cutis laxa, ambiguous genitalia, craniostenosis, mental retardation, and facial abnormalities. SCARF syndrome shares some clinical features of Lenz-Majewski hyperostotic dwarfism syndrome.
13224	Scarlatina or scarlet fever covers the body with rashes, turns the tough into a strawberry-like appearance, and results in high fever.
13225	Scarlet fever is an exotoxin illness characterized by a red "strawberry-like" tongue, sore throat, fever, and a rash on the upper body that may spread to other parts of the body. A distinction must be made between scarlet fever and rheumatic fever, although the former can progress into the latter.
13226	Schamberg's disease pertains to a chronic skin discoloration affecting people of all ages but mostly occurring in males. It usually affects the legs, gradually spreading throughout the body. Schamberg's disease is also alternatively called progressive pigmented purpuric dermatitis.
13227	Scheie syndrome is the mildest form of MPS I, the most frequently occurring type of Mucopolysaccharidosis, or a group of hereditary metabolic diseases that result from the malfunctioning or absence of lysosomal enzymes necessary for breaking down long chains of sugar carbohydrates known as glycosaminoglycans.
13228	Scheuermann's disease is a disease that is a type of juvenile osteochondrosis or disorder of the spine.
13229	Schilder's Disease otherwise known as the Diffuse Myelinoclastic Sclerosis is a type of neurodegenerative disease tjhat manifest throough pseudotumoural demyelinating lesions and is considered as one of the borderline of multiple sclerosis.
13230	Schinzel-Giedion syndrome is an extremely rare neurodegenerative terminal disease characterized by severe mid-face retraction, renal abnormalities, skull deformities, and other anomalies.
13231	Schistosomiasis pertains to a parasitic disorder caused by several species of fluke found mostly in Asia, South America, Africa, as well as in areas with water contaminated by parasite-carrying snails. Although it has a relatively low mortality rate, schistosomiasis is definitely a chronic, potentially debilitating disease that can lead to severe damage to the liver and intestines. Schistosomiasis is also called bilharzias, bilharziosis or snail fever.
13231	Schistosomiasis is a disease caused by parasites with several species of fluke of the genus Schistosoma. The parasite is commonly found in Africa, Asia, and South America particularly in regions with water that is polluted with freshwater snails that may carry parasite.
13232	Schizencephaly is a rare cephalic disease characterized by anomalous clefts (or slits) in the cerebral hemispheres.
13233	Schizoaffective disorder is a kind of schizophrenia associated with other psychiatric disorders. A person with a schizoaffective disorder can also show signs of mania as well as depression. This condition can also go with other schizophrenic conditions such as schizopherniform and schizotypal disorders.
13234	Schizophrenia is a psychiatric term used in reference to a mental disorder characterized by an impaired perception of reality.
13235	Schizophrenia, genetic types pertain to schizophrenic forms that are attributed to genetic factors. Schizophrenia is a mental disorder of unknown origin characterized by drastic personality and behavior changes, including a skewed perception of reality. Although schizophrenia is not strictly a genetic disorder, it is believed to have a significant genetic component. Very recently, a genetic risk in schizophrenia has been correlated to a certain anomaly in normal brain process that occurs as early as the 6th year of life.
13236	Schmidt syndrome is an adrenal defect that commonly occurs with another glandular disorder. Schmidt syndrome is also known as "autoimmune polyendocrine syndrome type 2", a more heterogeneous form of autoimmune polyendocrine syndrome which affects one or more endocrine organs but has also been known to invade other non-endocrine organs. Schmidt syndrome is a more commonly occurring type of autoimmune polyendocrine syndrome.
13237	Schmitt Gillenwater Kelly Syndrome is a rare disease classified as an autosomal dominant syndrome. This rare syndrome is characterized by radial hypoplasia, triphalangeal thumbs, hypospadias, and maxillary diastema. Individuals afflicted with Schmitt Gillenwater Kelly Syndrome usually have thumbs that look like a finger and short radial bone. Males suffering from this syndrome have an abnormally positioned urethral opening. Other afflicted patients may exhibit the presence of a condition known as Prognathism, wherein one jaw is larger than the other, which eventually causes the other jaw to protrude in front of the other one.
13238	This phobia is the sudden dislike of a young child or fear of going to school which is usually a sign of separation anxiety. Children who have this phobia tend to fake illness and create excuses to avoid going to school. To deal with the phobia it requires awareness of the original school-related issue.
13239	Schwannoma, malignant is a type of malignant tumor that grows from the nerve sheath cells. It originates from the Schwann cells that are responsible for providing myelin insulation to nerve fibers in the peripheral nervous system. It is most common to occur on the sciatic, brachial and sacral plexus nerves.
13240	Schwannomatosis is a disorder that causes tumors, known as Schwannomas to grow on nerves in the peripheral nervous system. It is a form of a genetic disorder known as Neurofibromatosis, an autosomal dominant genetic disorder. In Schwannomatosis, there is a great possibility that the nerves in the head and peripheral nerves may be affected.
13241	Sciatica is a painful condition due to pressure on the sciatic nerve. The sciatic nerve is the main nerve that branches off and continues down to the thighs, legs, feet, and ankles.
13242	Scimitar syndrome is a rare congenital heart defect wherein one or more of the four veins transporting oxygenated blood from the lungs drain to the right atrium of the heart instead of the left atrium. In this medical condition, the right pulmonary vein is connected to the inferior vena cava instead of the left atrium. This rare medical condition is also known as pulmanory venolobar syndrome.
13243	Scleritis is an inflammatory disease that usually targets and affect the sclera or the outer coating of the eye.
13244	Sclerodactyly is the medical condition that refers to the thickening and tightness of the skin of the fingers and toes and associated with atropy of the underlying soft tissues.
13245	Scleroderma is a rare, progressive connective tissue disorder characterized by thickening and hardening of the skin and connective tissue. Some forms of scleroderma can involve even internal organs. There are two types of scleroderma: localized scleroderma and the systemic type, known as systemic sclerosis. The localized type can be disabling but not fatal. However, the systemic type can be fatal due to complications brought about by some accompanying diseases.
13246	Limited scleroderma is a condition that affects the body's connective tissue specifically only on the skin of the lower arms and legs, neck and face. It is also called CREST syndrome.
13247	Sclerotylosis is a rare inherited skin disorder characterized by atrophic skin fibrosis and keratoderma of the soles and palms, underdeveloped nails and bowel (gastrointestinal) cancer. Diagnosis of Sclerotylosis is achieved through simple clinical observation and examination of the affected area of the skin which may include skin biopsy, patch tests and other diagnostic procedures to confirm the presence of the disease.
13248	This is a medical condition wherein the person's spine is curved sideways and may also be rotated. When the spine is seen in x-rays, it may look more like a letter 'S' or a 'C'. It is categorized as congenital, idiopathic or developed due to a secondary symptom of another condition like celebral palsy.
13249	Scoliosis with unilateral unsegmented bar is a medical condition marked by abnormal spinal development wherein two or more vertebrae fail to separate on one side of the spine which caused curvature of the spine. In this condition, several vertebrae are fused together on one side of the spine. The spine becomes increasingly curved to the point wherein lung and heart function becomes affected.
13250	Scombrotoxic fish poisoning, otherwise known as the Scombroid or the Histamine fish poisoning, is a medical condition that is usually caused to the bacterial spoilage of fish that breakdowns fish protein and produce byproducts like histamine.
13251	Scrapie is a fatal and degenerative disease involving the nervous systems of goats and sheep. It is a contagious form of spongiform encephalopathy associated with chronic wasting disease of deer and mad cow disease. This contagious disorder can't infect humans. Scrapie is somehow similar to Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease and kuru in humans. This communicable disease predominantly affecting goats and sheep have a very long incubation period.
13252	Scratch dermatitis is medically known as neurodermatitis, which is actually the tendency of a person to scratch simply out of habit. This cycle is brought about by a stubborn skin condition that causes the skin to become leathery and thick.
13253	Scrotal masses are fluid or solid materials found in, on, or around the testicles. It may also indicate a serious condition such as cancer.
13254	Scrub Typhus is a form of typhus that is usually caused by Orientia Tsutsugamushi that is usually transmitted by chiggers that are commonly founds in scrubs.
13255	Scurvy is a severe disease due to insufficient Vitamin C (ascorbic acid) intake. In infants, scurvy is occasionally referred to as Barlow's disease. It is one of the diseases that are associated as a result of malnutrition or poor dietary choices by people living in more progressive and industrialized nations.
13256	Sea sickness is a type of motion sickness which is characterized by a feeling of nausea and sometimes vertigo which is experienced after spending time on a craft on water. This is usually because of the rocking motion of the craft such as boat. Some can instantly feel sea sick when they set foot on a boat.
13257	Seasonal affective disorder (SAD) is a form of depression people experience at certain seasons. The depression usually begins in autumn and winter, and lift during springtime.
13258	This disorder is also known as winter depression wherein sufferers feel normal mental health all through most of the year but feels depressed during the winter. People experiencing this disorder, tend to sleep too much, have less energy, and craves for sweets and starchy foods. There are three types of this disorder which are Fall and Winter SAD, Spring and Summer SAD and Reverse SAD.
13259	Sebaceous cysts or epidermoid cysts are small painless bumps that slowy grow beneath the skin on the face, neck, trunk, and sometimes in the genital area.
13260	A common skin disorder called seborrheic dermatis mainly affects the scalp causing a scaly, red skin, itchy and dandruff. It can also affect the upper chest, face, back and oily areas of the body.
13261	Seckel syndrome is a rare medical condition marked by fetal and postnatal growth retardation, mental retardation and characteristic or distinguishing facial features.
13262	Temporal lobe seizure is a type of complex partial seizure that is usually localized to one part of the brain.
13263	Semantic-pragmatic disorder is a developmental language speech disorder in which children have difficulties in using language in appropriate instances, as well as with the semantic use of language. This disorder is believed to be linked with Asperger's syndrome and autism.
13264	Senile Purpura, otherwise known as the Purpura Senilis, is the medical condition that refers to the bruising of the skin inasmuch as the blood vessels of the skin are more fragile. It is usually dark and purplish are are most commonly seen in the forearms and backs of the hand of the old perople. asy skin bruising in older people.
13265	Sensorineural hearing loss is hearing loss caused by damage to the auditory nerve or the cochlea, which is the part of the brain that processes sound. It may be present at birth or congenital. It may also be acquired as a result of aging, excessive noise, diseases like meningitis.
13266	Sensory Integration Dysfunction (SID) is the inability of the brain to accurately process information conveyed by the senses. It is also referred to as Sensory Processing Disorder. In this medical condition, the sensory information sensed by the person with SID tends to be analyzed by the brain in a different manner causing upset and confusion.
13267	Sensory neuropathy is a type of neuropathy wherein damage is eventually on the sensory nerve. Damage to any of these nerves will lead to distorted functions and reduced sensation. It is not a disease itself but sensory neuropathy is diagnosed in some patients wherein no pre-existing cause can be distinguished.
13268	Sensory neuropathy type I is a kind of neuropathy that affects the sensory nerves; which are responsible for sensations all over the body. Oftentimes, involved body parts include the legs, feet, hands and ankle.
13269	Separation anxiety is a kind emotional stress experienced by children who face separation from their parents or primary caregivers. When not treated, this may lead to anxiety and dependence disorders upon adulthood.
13270	Sepsis is a life-threatening medical condition marked by a whole-body inflammatory state caused by the presence of pathological microorganisms in the blood. Sepsis can affect an individual of any age but is most common in infants (neonatal sepsis). This is because the immune systems of infants are not yet fully developed to fight off infections.
13271	Septic arthritis is a bacterial infection in a joint.
13272	This is a serious medical condition that is the result from decreased tissue perfusion and oxygen delivery which is caused by sepsis and infection. In severe cases it can cause death and numerous organ failures. This condition greatly affects, children, elderly and immunocompromised individuals for the reason that their immune system cannot handle such infection.
13273	Septicaemia is a medical condition in which the blood is contaminated with high levels of bacteria, thus resulting to infection of tissues and other organs. It is a life-threatening disease that has caused fatalities all throughout history.
13274	Septicemia is a medical condition that refers to the presence of the bacteria in the blood and is most commonly connected with other severe diseases.
13275	Septo-optic dysplasia is a rare disorder marked by abnormal development of the optic disk, pituitary insufficiencies, and most of the time absence of the septum pellucidum. The septum pellucidum is the part of the brain that separates the anterior horns or the lateral ventricles of the brain.
13276	Serious Digitalis Intoxication is adverse reaction to a drug medically known as digitalis or digoxin; a medicine that slows heart rate, improves contraction and helps eliminate fluids from body tissues. Serious digitalis intoxication can result to more heart complications and may even lead to death if left undistinguished. Serious Digitalis Intoxication is one of the most serious and dangerous adverse drug reactions recorded in clinical medicine.
13277	Seronegative spondyloarthropathy is a medical condition that is usually characterized by the inflammation of the joint. It is a disease that is usually associated with the MHC class I molecule HLA-B27.
13278	Serotonin syndrome is the presence of dangerous levels of serotonin in the body.
13279	Serum sickness is a type of delayed sensitivity response. It usually appears four to ten days after exposure to the triggering substance which can be either antibiotics or antiserum. Antiserum is the portion of the serum containing antibodies like gamma globulin. Allergic reactions have rapid response while serum sickness reaction is delayed because it takes a long time for the body to produce antibodies to the new protein.
13280	Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS) is an infectious respiratory condition in humans. It was reported to have an initial outbreak that has turned out to be pandemic during November 2002 to July 2003. But it was only on February 2003 when SARS reached public spotlight.
13281	SARS is an infectious respiratory illness that had an outbreak in February 2003. SARS starts with flu-like symptoms and either the condition develops or subsides to chronic respiratory phase. When SARS develops to the second phase the condition can be deadly.
13282	Severe brain injury is a condition in which an individual has been unconscious for a prolonged length of time due to a variety of problems such as a stroke, traumatic head injury, brain tumor, or an underlying illness such as an infection or diabetes.
13283	Severe combined immunodeficiency refers to a group of genetically inherited disorder which causes severe abnormalities in the immune system. These disorders result to reduced or impaired functions of the T and B lymphocytes. These are the specialized white blood cells processed in the bone marrow that fights infection. It is also known as the Boy in the Bubble Syndrome and referred to as the "bubble boy" disease because victims are extremely vulnerable to infectious diseases. This group of life-threatening diseases is present at birth and if left untreated may cause death in the first years of the child.
13284	Sexual Dysfunction is a sexual problem which refers to a problem during any phase of the cycle of sexual response that usually prevents the individual from experiencing sexual satisfaction.
13285	Sexual Headache is a medical condition whereby a person experience severe headache just before or during orgasm.
13286	Sexual Neuropathy is a medical condition where there is damage in the nerves that results in to a reduced or less sexual function both in men and women.
13287	Sezary syndrome also referred to as Sezary's disease is a rare type of cutaneous lymphoma characterized by skin redness, leukemia and enlarged lymph nodes. It is a form of cutaneous T-cell lymphoma, which is a cancerous disease involving the skin. This is a disease marked by a great increase of the white blood cells known as T-lymphocytes.
13288	Sezary's lymphoma is a type of cutaneous lymphoma that usually starts in or on the skin. The cancer is marked by the excessive propagation of T-cells which are a type of white blood cell. The extent of skin involvement is uneven and most of the time patchy.
13289	This syndrome is a type of child abuse that is thought to rise when the abuser brutally shakes an infant or a small child that creates a whiplash kind of motion that results to the acceleration-decelaration injuries. The distinctive lack of external evidence of trauma is a remarkable feature of SBS.
13290	Shapiro syndrome is a rare medical condition marked by recurring periods of hypothermia (abnormally low body temperature), hyperhidrosis (too much sweating), and partial or complete absence of the corpus callosum. Corpus callosum is the band of tissue connecting the two hemispheres of the brain. In other cases, there is also absence of sweating, slow heart rate and low blood pressure.
13291	Sharp Syndrome is a rare connective tissue disorder affecting a range of body tissues and organs. It is also referred to as mixed connective tissue disease. Sharp syndrome is a serious auto immune disease, wherein the body's defense system attacks and damage itself.
13292	Sheehan syndrome is a rare condition that happens in women who suffered a severe uterine bleeding during and after childbirth. In this medical condition the resulting blood loss and hypovolemic shock may cause damage to the pituitary gland leading to hypopituitarism. Sheehan syndrome is also known as postpartum hypopituitarism or postpartum pituitary necrosis.
13293	Shellfish allergy is known to be one of the most common forms of food allergies and typically found in most adults. The allergic reactions to shellfish allergy can range from mild to severe and possible fatal symptoms. Shellfish are known as animals with shells such as clams, shrimp, lobster and even squid. General avoidance to shellfish is the most effective preventative treatment of this type of allergy.
13294	Shigellosis is an infectious disease affecting the intestinal tract, which can be transmitted through oral and fecal route. It is mainly considered as a food borne illness. The condition may be severe especially with child patients. It is usually predominant in places with poor hygiene because the causative organism is mostly found in water contaminated with human feces.
13295	Shin splints is a form of running-related injuries. It is also known as medial tibial stress syndrome.
13296	Shingles is the common name for Herpes Zoster. It is an infectious viral disease characterized by a painful skin rash positioned in a limited area on one side of the body.
13297	Shock is a serious and life-threatening medical condition that happens when the body does not receive sufficient amount of blood causing the cells of the body to receive inadequate supply of oxygen and nutrients. Medical shock is a critical medical emergency and has been reported as one of the leading causes of death for seriously-ill patients. There are four types of shock namely: hypovolemic, cardiogenic, obstructive and distributive shock. The most recent type of shock classified is endocrine shock, which is based on endocrine disruptions.
13298	Short bowel syndrome is a malabsorption disorder which is caused by the surgical removal of the small intestine, which is the absorptive region of the gastrointestinal tract. This disorder is also known as short gut syndrome or short gut. Most cases of Short bowel syndrome are acquired; rare cases include children born with congenital short bowel.
13299	Short QT syndrome is a congenital abnormality in the normal rhythm of the heart. The heart of an individual with Short QT Syndrome takes less time than normal to recharge between beats. Left untreated, the irregular heartbeats will manifest signs and symptoms starting from dizziness and fainting, later on cardiac arrest and worse may lead to sudden death.
13300	Short rib-polydactyly syndrome is a description for a group of bone growth disorders referred to as skeletal dysplasias, which is commonly known as dwarfism. Any form of short rib-polydactyly syndrome is fatal for newborns because of severe underdevelopment of the lungs causing inability to breathe. There are four closely related dysplasias in Short rib-polydactyly syndrome namely: I-"Saldino-Noonan Type" II- "Majewski Type" III- "Verma-Naumoff Type" IV- "Beemeer-Langer Type"
13301	Short stature or dwarfism caused by a medical condition resulting in an adult height ranging from 2 feet 8 inches to 4 feet 8 inches.
13302	Shoulder Arthritis is a medical condition that is characterized by the excessive pain in the shoulder due to the grinding of the bones against each other due to the absence of cartilage.
13303	Shoulder Bursitis is the inflammation of the bursa or that tiny fluid-filled sac that functions as a gliding surface to reduce friction between the body's tissue.
13304	Shprintzen Syndrome goes by different names like velocardio-facial syndrome, DiGeorge syndrome, and 22q11.2 deletion syndrome. This medical condition is a rare inherited syndrome of cardiac deficiencies and craniofacial abnormalities.
13305	Shulman-upshaw syndrome is a hereditary form of Thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura (TTP), which is a rare blood condition marked by the formation of blood clots known as thrombi within the circulation. This condition results in the consumption of platelets therefore leading to low platelet counts.
13306	Shwachman syndrome is a rare genetic disorder with numerous and wide-ranging manifestations. The disease is characteristically marked by signs of insufficient fat and nutrient absorption because of abnormal development of the pancreas and improper functioning of the bone marrow, which results in hematologic abnormalities.
13307	Shwachman-Diamond syndrome (SDS) is a rare congenital disorder that occurs in just about one in 50,000 births. This syndrome affects multiple organs in the body and symptoms may differ from one individual to another. People who have Shwachman-diamond syndrome are at a great risk of developing life-threatening complications such as severe infections, acute myelogenous leukemia and bone marrow failure in addition to exocrine pancreatic dysfunctions.
13308	Shwartzman phenomenon is a body reaction, either localized or systemic to particular toxins resulting in the formation of a blood clot that can cause death to the affected tissue. The symptom may vary depending on the part of the body exposed to the endotoxin. This condition usually occurs during delivery or abortion oftentimes because foreign bodies are introduced into the tissues located in the female reproductive system. The phenomenon is usually marked by tissue necrosis, bleeding and ulceration.
13309	Shy-Drager syndrome is a degenerative neurological disorder affecting the brain and other parts of the nervous system specifically the autonomic nervous system. The disorder is identified and was named after Dr. Milton Shy and Dr.Glen Drager; two researchers who described the syndrome in 1960. Patients with Shy-Drager syndrome experience wide ranging damage to the autonomic nervous system, the part of the nervous system responsible for controlling involuntary functions.
13310	Sialadenitis is inflammation of salivary gland due to obstruction of the salivary gland or duct. Sialadenitis is very common among the elderly with salivary gland stones. There are also cases occurring in infants in the first few weeks after birth. Without proper treatment, Sialadenitis can progress into serious infection most especially in the injured and elderly.
13311	Sialidosis is a very rare inherited metabolic disorder characterized by an insufficiency of the enzyme alpha-neuraminidase. This insufficiency leads to the abnormal accumulation of mucopolysaccharides (complex carbohydrates) and mucolipids (fatty substances) in most tissues of the body. Sialidosis belongs to a group of disorders that are known as lysosomal disorders. It is also known by other names like Mucolipidosis I, Sialidase deficiency, and Alpha-neuraminidase Deficiency.
13312	Sicca syndrome refers to the dryness of the organs that are supposed to be wet or moistened. The organs commonly affected by the condition are the eyes and the mouth.
13313	Sick building syndrome is a collection of ailments due to a poorly maintained workplace. This can be due to structural defects, poor ventilation and facilities, as well as disorganized arrangement of offices.
13314	Sick sinus syndrome is the abnormal functioning of the sinus node, which is the natural pacemaker of the heart.
13315	Sickle cell anemia is a serious blood disorder wherein the red blood cells can assume the shape of the letter "C" (sickle-shaped). Normal red blood cells are smooth and shaped like a doughnut. Sickle cell anemia is a chronic and life-long condition most sufferers are often well but with a shortened life expectancy and risk for various complications and periodic attacks of pain related to the disorder.
13316	Sideroblastic anemia, autosomal is a type of sideroblastic anemia that is inherited in autosomal recessive mode of transmission. This hereditary sideroblastic anemia is a medical condition wherein the body has enough iron but cannot integrate it into hemoglobin. In this inherited form of anemia, the red blood cells become overloaded with iron thus reduce the ability of the blood to carry oxygen.
13317	Siderosis is a medical condition characterized by abnormal amount of iron deposits in body tissues. It is caused by exposure to iron oxide present in welding material, foundries and iron ore mining. Symptoms that are usually observed in individuals with siderosis include retarded growth in children, endocrine dysfunctions, heart failure, diabetes mellitus, and symptoms affecting the liver. It is also referred to as an environmental disease of the lung because of the causative agent that is associated with the disorder.
13318	Silent sinus syndrome is a spontaneous, asymptomatic collapse of the largest paranasal sinus (maxillary sinus) and orbital floor linked with negative sinus pressure; which can often result to painless facial irregularity, double vision (diplopia) and recession of the eyeball within the orbit known as enophthalmos. Diagnosis of silent sinus syndrome can be confirmed radiologically through distinctive and characteristic features of images. This would include obstruction or blockage in the maxillary sinus outlet, sinus opacification, and sinus volume loss due to the retraction of the sinus toward the inside. Surgical treatment is an option, which involves creation of mucous drainage outlet from the blockage in the sinus.
13319	Silent stroke is another name for hypertension. It is a condition where high blood pressure can trigger a sudden inflammation of the nerves that can cause paralysis or sudden death.
13320	Silicosis is an occupational lung disease due to inhalation of silica dust. The disease is characterized by inflamed and nodular lesion scars in the upper lung lobes. Silicosis was first described in 1705 and is also known by other names like Grinder's disease and Potter's rot. Silicosis is the most common occupational lung disease in the world.
13321	Silver-Russell dwarfism is another type of less common dwarfism. It is also known as Silver - Russell Syndrome and Russell - Silver syndrome.
13322	Silvery hair syndrome is a rare genetic condition marked by a partial nonexistence of pigmentation in the eye, skin and hair; cluster of pigmentation in hair shafts, immunodeficiency and neurological manifestations.
13323	Simpson-Golabi-Behmel syndrome is a rare genetic congenital disorder marked by accelerated growth and other abnormalities. The syndrome is also known as Sara Agers Syndrome and Bulldog Syndrome. The syndrome somehow resembles another overgrowth syndrome referred as Beckwith- Wiedemann syndrome; another syndrome concerned with insulin-like growth factor 2 (IGF2).
13324	Sin nombre virus infection or hantavirus pulmonary syndrome is a disease causing flu-like symptoms that may be severe and pose life-threatening breathing problems.
13325	Singultus or hiccups sound like a person is catching his or her breath while sobbing
13326	Sino-auricular heart block is a rare heart condition due to an abnormality in the electrical system of the heart rather than an arterial disease, which is regarded as a disease of the blood vessels of the heart.
13327	Sinus Cancer is a type of cancer that occurs in the bones surrounding the sinus cavity or the membrane lining of the nose.
13328	This condition is also referred to as Sinusitis. It is the inflammation of the paranasal sinuses which can be a result of infection from fungal, bacterial, viral allergic or autoimmune issues.
13329	Sinus Node Disease is a disorder affecting the heart rhythm due to the sinus node in the heart.
13330	Sipple syndrome is a group of rare inherited disorders that causes the growth of tumors in several glands. It is also known as Multiple Endocrine Neoplasia Type 2. Tumors produced by this syndrome can either be benign or malignant. Sipple syndrome is a subtype of multiple endocrine Neoplasia producing tumors that generally occur in endocrine glands and sometimes in endocrine tissues.
13331	Sirenomelia is a very rare congenital defect wherein infants are born with one lower extremity characterized by totally fused legs and the possibility of wide ranging abnormalities. It is also referred to as the Mermaid syndrome because the legs of an affected infant suggest the appearance of a mermaid. Incidence is very rare appearing roughly one out of every 70,000 births. Sirenomelia is a life-threatening condition because of an increased risk of developing complications involving kidney and bladder development and activity.
13332	Sitophobia is defined as the persistent, abnormal, and illogical fear of food or eating. This kind of phobia causes many people unnecessary or useless distress. It is known by many names like Cibophobia, Sitiophobia. Symptoms may differ from one person to another and the cause simply depends on the person who is suffering from this unwarranted fear. Medications cannot cure Sitophobia but are only aimed at suppressing the symptoms by means of chemical interaction. Some therapies are effective in training the mind of a sitophobic to feel completely different to food and eating for the purpose of eliminating the fear in a gradual but effective process.
13333	Sitosterolemia is a very rare inherited metabolic defect wherein unnecessary amounts of sterols are absorbed and not eliminated from the body, which results in accumulation in the blood causing damage in the tissues of the body. Oftentimes, sitosterolemia is misdiagnosed as high blood cholesterol, which is actually one of the effects of sitosterolemia in the body.
13334	Situs Inversus, X-linked is a congenital condition wherein major visceral organs of the chest and abdomen are located in the wrong position. It occurs only in males because it is an X-linked disorder. For example, instead of being positioned on the left; the heart is located on the right side of the chest. In general, situs inversus, X-linked causes no problem but may tend to be relevant during medical examination or surgery because the internal organs are located in the wrong side of the body.
13335	Sixth disease, also known as roseola, is an infectious disease that affects infants. It is mainly characterized by rashes and high fever, and is caused by two subtypes of the herpes virus.
13336	Sjogren's syndrome is an autoimmune disorder wherein immune cells attack and destroy the tear and salivary ducts causing dryness in the mouth and eyes. It is a chronic and slowly progressing disorder marked by inability to produce tear and saliva. It is also associated with rheumatic disorders including rheumatoid arthritis.
13336	Sjogren's syndrome is a disorder in which the immune system attacks healthy tissues affecting the eyes and mouth that result in decreased production of tears and saliva.
13337	Skeletal dysplasia is the medical term used to describe persons with short stature. It is also referred to as dwarfism.
13338	Skin cancer builds up in the epidermis so the tumor is usually evident which makes cancer detectable in early stage. There are types of skin cancer which are named after the kind of skin cell that is affected. Types: - Basal Cell Carcinoma (BCC) - Squamous cell carcinoma (SCC) - Malignant Melanoma
13338	Skin cancer is a type of cancer characterized by abnormal growth of skin cells commonly affecting areas of the skin that are exposed to sunlight, including the lips, face, scalp, neck, ears, chest, arms and hands, and on the legs in women. However, skin cancer may also occur in skin areas that are rarely exposed to the sun, such as the palms of hands, genital area, and spaces between toes.
13339	Skin tags or fibroepithelial polyp is a tiny benign tumor that forms mainly in areas where the skin forms creases, like in the neck, groin and armpits. The size of the tumor may range from a grain of rice to the size of a golf ball. Its surface maybe smooth or has an unusual appearance. It is raised in the skin on a fleshy stalk referred to as peduncle.
13339	Skin tags, also known as acorchordons, are small benign growths that arise on the creased areas of the skin, such as the face, neck and armpits. These can be removed by surgery.
13340	Slapped cheek disease is a condition that results in face rashes that look like slapped marks. milar rashes.
13341	This is a disorder that is distinguished by pauses in breathing during sleep. Episodes known as apneas lasts long enough that one or more breathes is missed which occur frequently during sleep. Episodes happen between a minimum of 10 minutes interval.
13342	It is a condition distinguished by momentary paralysis of the body shortly after waking up. The condition is related to the paralysis that happens as a natural part of REM (rapid eye movement) sleep also referred to as REM atonia. The condition happens when the brain awakes from a state of REM though the bodily paralysis persist which leaves the person consciously awake but is unable to move.
13342	It is a condition distinguished by momentary paralysis of the body shortly after waking up. The condition is related to the paralysis that happens as a natural part of REM (rapid eye movement) sleep also referred to as REM atonia. The condition happens when the brain awakes from a state of REM though the bodily paralysis persist which leaves the person consciously awake but is unable to move.
13343	Sleepwalking, also referred to as somnambulism, is a condition during which an individual is unaware of walking while sleeping.
13344	A slipped disc is the protrusion of the inner substance of an invertebral disc that causes pressure on the nerves of the spinal cord. The condition is caused by sudden muscle twitches in the spine.
13345	Sly syndrome is a Mucopolysaccharidosis storage disorder due to deficiency of the enzyme beta-glucuronidase leading to accumulated deposits of dermatan, heparan, and chondroitin sulfates in most tissues and organs of the body including the central nervous system.
13346	Small cell lung cancer is a type of lung cancer which is characterized by malignancy of the lungs originating from small cells. It is also known as small cell carcinoma and oat cell cancer. Small cell lung cancer is very different from other kinds of lung cancer, wherein metastases are already present upon discovery. It is called small cell lung cancer because the cancer cells are mostly small and filled with the nucleus.
13347	Small intestinal bacterial overgrowth (SIBO) is an illness in which the bacteria found in the small intestine have grown to abnormally large proportions, which can cause infections and obstruction of the intestinal lining.
13348	Small Intestine Cancer is the cancer that grows in the intestine between the stomach and the colon which is responsible for digesting and absorbing nutrients. It includes adenocarcinoma, lymphoma, sarcoma and the carcinoids.
13349	Smallpox is a very serious and infectious disease that is brought about by the variola virus. The name was derived from the pus-filled blisters that form and appear during the duration of the illness. Smallpox is contagious; it spreads through tiny drops of saliva when an infected person coughs, sneezes or talks usually during close face-to-face contact.
13350	Smith-Lemli-Opitz syndrome is a rare developmental abnormality that affects the various parts of the human body. In this condition, persons exhibit unusual facial features, a small head size, learning disabilities as well as behavioral problems. Children with the disorder also suffer from autism, problems with the lungs, liver and gastrointestinal tract, and have poor interactive abilities. They also display fused toes or have extra fingers or toes.
13351	Smith-Magenis syndrome is a unique and clinically identifiable genetic medical condition marked by a specific pattern of physical, behavioral and developmental characteristics and presentations. It is a rare disorder estimated to occur in roughly one out of every 25,000 births.
13352	Smith-Theiler-Schachenmann syndrome, also known as rib-gap syndrome or cerebrocostomandibular syndrome is an autosomal recessive disorder characterized by a deformed upper jaw, a refracted tongue, and rib dysplasia. These malformations usually lead to respiratory problems as well as moderate to severe mental retardation.
13353	Sneddon syndrome is a rare inherited disease, which involves blood vessel disorders manifesting in changes in the skin and neurological symptoms.
13354	Snoring is an annoying condition that may indicate a serious medical condition. It occurs when air flows past cause the tissues in the throat to vibrate, which creates hoarse or harsh sounds.
13355	Social phobia is also referred to as social anxiety. This disorder causes social anxiety or stress which makes the sufferer incapable to function in at least several areas of everyday life. Sufferers have a constant fear of being judged by other people and being embarrassed or disgraced with their actions. This disorder can actually arise from being actually scrutinized by others. Some sufferers turn to drugs or alcohol to decrease panic and embarrassment in social gatherings.
13356	Sociophobia is a kind of social anxiety disorder, a type of mental disorder wherein an individual experiences intense and unfounded fear of social gatherings where there lies a great possibility of being embarrassed and make fun of.
13357	Soft tissue sarcoma is a type of malignant or cancerous tumor that grows in mesenchymal tissues including all muscles, connective tissues and bones present in the body. It can invade surrounding tissue and can spread to other organs of the body to form secondary tumors with cells similar to primary tumors.
13358	Solar keratosis is skin condition in which an individual has rough and scaly patches on face, lips, ears, back of the hands, forearms, scalp, and neck. It is also referred to as actinic keratosis.
13359	Solar lentigines are flat, dark spots on the areas of the skin most exposed to the sun. They may be gray, brown or black spots with varying sizes. They are also called liver spots and age spots.
13360	Solitary rectal ulcer syndrome is a condition in which a single ulcer typically occurs in the rectum that may cause rectal bleeding with straining or when having bowel movements.
13361	Somatostatinoma is a rare endocrine pancreatic tumor that secretes excessive amount of somatostatin hormones. The tumor is closely associated with diabetes mellitus that produces symptoms such as hyperglycemia, malabsorption and excessive fat in feces. These tumors are malignant and are commonly located in the head of the pancreas. Chemotherapy by means of streptozocin, dacarbazine, and doxorubicin is the treatment for Somatostatinoma.
13362	The medical term for this kind of infection is pharyngitis. It is the swelling of the pharynx and in most cases is painful. It is regarded to be caused by viral infection (90%) while the remainder is caused by bacterial infection and in rare cases oral thrush. Irritation due to pollutants or chemical substance, sometimes cause sore throat.
13363	Soto's syndrome is a rare genetic disorder wherein excessive physical growth is observed during the first two to three years of life. This is the probable reason why this disorder is also named as cerebral gigantism. Children with this syndrome are often large at birth and often presents with larger heads and taller and heavier than what should be considered as normal for their age.
13364	Soy allergy is known to affect only about one percent of Americans. This condition triggers an allergic to any soy-based product, as well as infant formulas with soy, and is mostly found in infants. However, in most cases, children will outgrow soy allergy by the age of three.
13365	Sparganosis is a medical condition that is caused by a parasitic tape worm.
13366	Spasmodic dysphonia is a condition where instability in contraction of the vocal chords during speaking has an effect on the voice quality of an individual. It is a chronic voice disorder. In spasmodic dysphonia, movement of vocal chords is forced and labored causing a jerky, hoarse or tight voice. Another name for spasmodic dysphonia is laryngeal dystonia.
13367	Spasmodic torticollis is a disorder where the muscles of the neck contract uncontrollably causing the head to turn in different postures. Cervical dystonia is another name for spasmodic torticollis. The contraction tends to worsen during standing or walking which makes even the simplest task difficult.
13368	Spasticity is a motor system disorder, especially of the central nervous system, wherein certain muscles are continuously contracted, which results to stiffness or tightness of the muscles, and may affect movement and speech.
13369	A Spermatic cyst is a type of cysts that develops in the epididymis, this is a tiny, coiled tube that is situated in the upper section of the testicle that is responsible for collecting and transporting sperm. Generally this condition is often painless and known to be noncancerous, as a spermatic is often filled with a clear or milky fluid that usually contains sperm.
13370	Spermatocele is a painless and noncancerous cyst that has developed in the epididymis.
13371	Spermatogenesis arrest is a rare, usually genetic disorder involving abnormal sperm development and resulting in infertility. It is possible to treat hormonal and toxic causes at the same time fertility can also be restored. It is usually caused by genetic factors that result to azoospermia or the medical condition pertaining to males without any measurable level of sperm in the semen.
13372	Spherocytosis is a hereditary blood disorder wherein red blood cells are sphere-shaped instead of the normal bi-concaved disk shape. These sphere-shaped red blood cells are referred to as spherocytes. The spleen damages the cells because they appear in a different sphere shape. This result in a lack of red blood cells called hemolytic anemia.
13373	Sphingolipidosis is a group of disorders involving the abnormal metabolism and storage of a substance called sphingolipid. Symptoms will differ depending on the particular disease. Examples of disorders from this group of diseases include gangliosidosis, Gaucher's disease and Niemann-Pick disease.
13374	A spider angioma is a group of small blood vessels seen at the surface of the skin. The pattern of the blood vessels will sometimes resemble the threads like that of a spider's web. This condition is usually common to young children and to pregnant women. People suffering from liver diseases are likely to have spider angiomas.
13375	Spider veins are short, thin capillaries that appear on the areas of the skin where pressure is usually concentrated. The areas where spider veins usually appear are on the thighs lower limbs and the face. They are similar to varicose veins. Women usually worry about the appearance of spider veins and varicose veins. The exact causes for the development of spider veins are unknown, but they can be removed by sclerotherapy.
13376	Spielmeyer-Vogt disease is a progressive genetic disorder where defective lipid metabolism that causes blindness, neurological deterioration, dementia leading to total incapacitation within years and death within 10-15 years. It is the most common type of a group of disorders called neuronal ceroid lipofuscinosis (NCLs). The disease is also known as Batten disease.
13377	Spina bifida is a birth defect that involves the incomplete development of the brain spinal cord and their protective coverings. This neural tube defect occurs at the end of the first month of pregnancy when the two sides of the embryo's spine were unable to join together, which leaves an open area. This medical condition is one of the most common congenital defects.
13378	Spinal cord injury is damage to the spinal cord resulting in a partial or complete loss of function like mobility or feeling. The spinal cord does not have to be disengaged to arrive at loss of function. In some cases, the spinal cord is integral but the effect of the damage results to loss of functioning. Even if a person breaks his back or neck no loss of functioning will occur if the spinal cord did not suffer any form of injury.
13379	Spinal cord neoplasm is a growth or tumor located in the spinal cord which can be either benign or malignant. Spinal cord neoplasms often originate in other parts of the body and metastasize (spread or travel) to the spinal cord.
13380	Spinal muscular atrophy is a degenerative group of disorder affecting the spinal cord and nerves, which results in muscle wasting and weakness caused by loss of motor neurons of the spinal cord and brainstem.
13381	Spinal shock is a rare medical condition that can occur after spinal cord injury and involves a period of absent reaction. This state can either be permanent or last for hours to weeks. After this period episodes of excessive impulses may follow. It can be accompanied by temporary paralysis of the legs that is often linked to injury in the spine.
13382	Spinal Stenosis is narrowing of the spinal canal. This condition puts pressure on the spinal cord. If the narrowing is located on the lower part of the spinal cord, it is referred to as lumbar spinal stenosis. Cervical spinal stenosis refers to the narrowing on the upper part of the spinal cord. However, there are also cases wherein stenosis can be found in any part of the spine.
13383	Spinal tumor pertains to a potentially malignant mass growing at or near the spinal cord. Spinal tumors may be either cancerous (malignant) or noncancerous (benign).
13384	Spinocerebellar Ataxia is a genetic disease wherein a person suffering from this disorder experience spinal cord and cerebellum degeneration. Degeneration of cerebellum will lead to muscle coordination loss. Spinocerebellar ataxia is a genetically inherited disorder marked by anomalous brain function representing multiple types of the disorder.
13385	Spirochetes disease is a medical condition marked by infection with bacteria that is often found in mud, sewage or septic tanks, and contaminated water. The bacterium that causes Spirochetes disease known as Spirochaetes is free-living and does not need oxygen for growth; in fact presence of oxygen can even cause death to this organism. Salvarsan is an effective antibiotic against Spirochaetes.
13386	Splenic-flexure syndrome is a chronic disorder producing symptoms of pain that appears to be caused by trapped gas in the splenic flexure or bends of the colon. The pain that a suffering individual can experience is similar to the pain of a heart attack; can be defined as unbearably severe and debilitating. Passage of gas or stool may somehow diminish the abdominal pain.
13387	Splenomegaly is enlargement of the spleen afar from its regular size. The spleen is an organ that plays an important role in the production and maintenance of red blood cells and in the production of some circulating white blood cells. The spleen is also part of two systems in the human body; the immune and lymph systems.
13388	Spondylarthritis is a chronic degenerative disease that is characterized by inflammation of the joints of the spine. It stands for a group of closely related disorders such as psoriatic arthritis, arthritis associated with inflammatory bowel disease and ankylosing spondylitis. In addition to chronic inflammation, ankylosis, stiffness and fusion of bones and peripheral joints of the spine are remarkable traits of this group of disorders, which are usually aggravated by anomalous cartilage and bone formation. The most remarkable symptoms that a person with spondylarthritis experience is back pain and impaired spine mobility along with the remarkable traits of the disorder.
13389	Spondylarthropathies are inflammatory joint disorders. The spondylarthropathies include ankylosing spondylitis, Reiter's syndrome, the reactive arthritides, certain subsets of juvenile arthropathy including juvenile ankylosing spondylitis and the seronegative enthesopathic arthropathy syndrome, enteropathic sacroiliitis, psoriatic arthropathy, and possibly a group of rarer disorders such as Behqet's syndrome, Whipple's disease, and pustulotic arthro-osteitis. Different spondylarthropathies can be recognized and differentiated from one another according to the particular peripheral joints concerned, the presentation of clinical features, and the way leading to the progression of the disease.
13390	Spondylarthropathy refers to a group of closely related inflammatory conditions affecting the sacroiliac joints, spine and in some cases other joints as well. Also referred to as seronegative arthropathy, this condition also involves other conditions such as inflammation of the urethra, alternating buttock pain, acute diarrhea, psoriasis, sacroiliitis or inflammatory bowel disease. Ankylosing spondylitis, psoriatic arthritis and reactive arthritis are some of the disorders within this group.
13391	Spondylitis is inflammation of one or more of bony vertebrae of the spine. In addition to this definition, spondylitis is also used to refer to any spinal column disorder. This also refers to a group of chronic inflammatory diseases that are forms of inflammatory arthritis affecting the spine, joints of the spine and other organs. The spondylitis family consists of the following conditions: ankylosing spondylitis, juvenile spondyloarthropathy, undifferentiated spondyloarthropathy, reactive, enteropathic and psoriatic arthritis; and Pott's disease.
13392	Spondyloepiphyseal dysplasia is a rare genetic bone growth disorder that leads to dwarfism, skeletal abnormalities, and in some cases visual and auditory disturbances. As the name of the disease suggests, this rare medical condition can be defined as a disease that affects the bone of the spine and the ends of bones and is actually presented at birth.
13393	Spondyloepiphyseal dysplasia, congenital type is a rare genetic bone growth disorder that leads to dwarfism, skeletal abnormalities, and in some cases visual and auditory disturbances. As the name of the disease suggests, this rare medical condition can be defined as a disease that affects the bone of the spine and the ends of bones which is present at birth.
13394	Spondylometaphyseal dysplasia is a rare inherited bone growth disorder that leads to dwarfism, skeletal abnormalities, and visual problems. As the name of the disease suggests, this rare medical condition can be defined as a disease that affects the bone of the spine and two regions near the ends of bones.
13395	Spongiform encephalopathy is a rare inherited prion disease with a wide range of symptoms which are actual results of degeneration of the nervous system.
13396	Sporotrichosis is a fungal disease affecting the skin but there are rare forms wherein the lungs, joints, bones and even the brain are affected. It is also referred to as rose-thorns or rose-gardener's disease because of the incidence that rose can spread the disease. SYMPTOMS Sporotrichosis progresses slowly and initial symptoms may present one to twelve weeks, usually at the average of three weeks after first fungal exposure. Symptoms may include the following Ã² Appearance of small painless skin bump, which may appear in the finger, hand or arm Ã² Boil-like lesions Ã² Firm skin nodules which can be ulcerative or suppurative Ã² Open sores Ã² Skin ulcerations located along lymph nodes
13397	Spotted fever can refer to two types which are Rocky Mountain spotted fever and Mediterranean spotted fever. Rocky Mountain spotted fever is a bacterial disease caused by Rickettsia rickettsi, which are transmitted by ticks. Mediterranean spotted fever is a bacterial disease caused by Rickettsia conorii usually transmitted by ticks of dogs known as Rhipicephalus sanguineus. It is widespread among countries located along the Mediterranean Sea.
13398	Sprengel deformity is a rare birth disorder wherein the shoulder blade is small and positioned high on the shoulders, which can affect arm movement. In some cases, the presence of a bony connection between the high positioned scapula and one cervical vertebra is observed known as omovertebral bone. The deformity is caused by descent failure of the shoulder blade during embryonic development.
13399	Squamous cell carcinoma is a form of malignant cancer arising from epithelial cells which often affects various organs like skin, lips, esophagus, mouth, lungs, prostate, urinary bladder, cervix and vagina.
13400	Squints, or strabismus, are an eye malfunction in which a child's eyes are not focused on the same direction.
13401	St. Anthony's fire is a very painful burning sensation in the arms and legs due to excessive exposure to ergotamines. Ergotamines are produced by particular fungi known as Claviceps purpurea, which usually contaminates rye and wheat. Ergotamines is a drug used for controlling migraine and in inducing abortion. Ergotamines are nerve toxins and can cause blood vessel constriction resulting in tissue death (gangrene).
13402	St. Louis Encephalitis is defined as a disorder caused by the St. Louis Encephalitis virus borne by mosquitoes. This disease mainly affects the United States, but there were also a few reported cases from Canada and Mexico.
13403	Stable angina, which is also known as chronic stable angina, is a type of angina which causes chest pain and discomfort due to reduced blood flow to the heart muscle.
13404	Stagnant loop syndrome results when a portion of the small intestine has been cut off from the normal flow of food and digestive juices. It is sometimes called blind loop syndrome or stasis syndrome.
13405	Stammering or stuttering is a disorder that results in repeating or prolonging a word, syllable or phrase, or stopping during speech and making no sound for certain syllables.
13406	This infection is caused by staphylococcus. Staphylococcus is a type of Gram-positive bacteria. These bacteria are comprised of thirty-one species. It resides usually in the mucous membranes and skin of humans and other organisms and is usually harmless. If it resides deep in the body staph infection can be deadly.
13407	Staph infections are skin infections caused by the bacteria Staphylococcus aureus.
13408	Staphylococcal infection, commonly known as Staph, is a medical condition resulting from exposure to the staph bacteria, which causes infection of various tissues of the body, or the production of harmful toxins, which may in turn, cause a number of diseases
13409	Staphylococcus aureus food poisoning is simply defined as food poisoning caused by the staphylococcus aureus bacteria, which occurs in contaminated foods (those not handled hygienically, and kept at the correct temperature).
13410	Stargardt's disease is a rare medical condition referred to as an autosomal recessive condition which causes juvenile macular degeneration leading to progressive loss of vision. This medical condition is also known as fundus flavimaculatus and Stargardt macular dystrophy. This severe form of macular degeneration begins onset in late childhood.
13411	STARI is an acronym for "Southern tick-associated rash illness", and is a bacterial infection which is spread by tick bites.
13412	Stasis syndrome results when a portion of the small intestine has been cut off from the normal flow of food and digestive juices. It is sometimes called blind loop syndrome or stagnant loop syndrome.
13413	Steatocystoma multiplex is a congenital inherited medical condition resulting to the presence of multiple cysts on the body usually on the chest but may also present in the upper arms or face. There are also reported cases of presence of cysts in the entire body.
13414	Steatorrhea is a medical condition wherein there is an increased fat excretion in feces. It is characterized by the formation of non-solid feces, floating stools due to excess fat from malabsorption, or the occurrence of an oily anal leakage, or some level of fecal incontinence.
13415	Steatosis is a mildest type of a nonalcoholic fatty liver disease. It is the accumulation of fat in the liver but usually does not causes liver damage.
13416	Steele-Richardson-Olszewski syndrome, also known as progressive supranuclear palsy is a disorder of the brain that causes problems with walking, balance, and eye movements.
13417	Stein-Leventhal syndrome is the clinical name for Polycystic Ovary Syndrome, a disorder of the endocrine affecting approximately 10% of all women. Stein-Leventhal syndrome is the most common hormonal disorder affecting women of reproductive age and has been associated as the leading cause of infertility.
13418	Stenosing tenosynovitis or trigger finger is a condition that catches the fingers or thumb in a bent position. The affected finger may straighten with a snap but may be locked in a bent position if the condition is severe.
13419	Stevens-Johnson Syndrome is a serious life-threatening skin condition marked by inflammation and blistering of the skin and mucous membranes. The syndrome is thought to be an allergic reaction in response to certain drugs and infectious diseases.
13420	Stickler syndrome (also known as David-Stickler syndrome or Stickler-Wagner syndrome) is a group of genetic disorders affecting connective tissue, specifically collagen. Stickler syndrome is marked by a distinctive facial appearance, eye abnormalities, hearing loss, and joint problems. ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
13421	Stickler syndrome (also known as David-Stickler syndrome or Stickler-Wagner syndrome) is a group of genetic disorders affecting connective tissue, specifically collagen. Stickler syndrome is marked by a distinctive facial appearance, eye abnormalities, hearing loss, and joint problems. ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
13422	Stickler syndrome (also known as David-Stickler syndrome or Stickler-Wagner syndrome) is a group of genetic disorders affecting connective tissue, specifically collagen. Stickler syndrome is marked by a distinctive facial appearance, eye abnormalities, hearing loss, and joint problems. ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
13423	Stickler syndrome, type I also known as David-Stickler syndrome and Stickler-Wagner syndrome is a group of rare genetically inherited disorders, which affect connective tissue particularly collagen. Distinctive facial features, aye anomalies, loss of hearing, and joint problems are the main traits of Stickler syndrome.
13424	Sticky eye is a condition, common in babies during their first few months, wherein the eye produces a thick yellowish discharge, usually as a result of a blocked tear duct, leading to infection.
13425	Stiff man syndrome (or Stiff Person syndrome) is a rare neurological disorder with features of an autoimmune disease. SPS is marked by fluctuating muscle rigidity in the trunk and limbs and a heightened sensitivity to stimuli such as noise, touch, and emotional distress, which can set off muscle spasms. Abnormal postures, often hunched over and stiffened, are common signs of the disorder.
13426	Stiff person syndrome is a unique neurological condition which affects the peripheral inhibition via central mechanisms and inhibit central gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) systems.
13427	Still's disease, a disorder featuring inflammation, is marked by high spiking fevers, evanescent (transient) salmon-colored rash, and/or arthritis. ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
13428	This condition usually seen on people that were abducted, it is psychological response wherein hostages display signs of loyalty to the hostage-taker despite of the danger where the hostage has been placed. This syndrome is also associated to other situations that have similar tensions like battered person syndrome. It was named after the bank robbery that happened in Norrmalmstorg, Stockholm, Sweden where in the people were held hostage from August 23-28, 1973. The syndrome usually affects hostages if the hostage taking took several days.
13429	Stokes-Adams Attack, named after two Irish physicians, Robert Adams and William Stokes, is a medical condition characterized by a sudden, transient episode of syncope, occasionally featuring seizures.
13430	Stomach cancer can arise in any part of the stomach and may spread throughout the stomach and to other organs; particularly the esophagus and the small intestine. ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
13431	Stomach flu or viral gastroenteritis is an infection of the intestine causing watery diarrhea, abdominal cramps, nausea or vomiting, and sometimes fever.
13432	Stomach lining inflammation, or gastritis, is the swelling of the stomach lining tissues. This is brought about by the obstruction of the gastrointestinal tract due to bacterial and viral infections, stress from other diseases, or side effects of other anti-inflammatory drugs.
13433	Stomatitis is an inflammation of the mucous lining of any of the structures inside the mouth, which may involve the cheeks, gums, tongue, lips, throat, and roof or floor of the mouth.
13434	Stomatodynia is a condition in which the tongue, lips, or most areas of the mouth feels a burning pain without obvious reasons. It is sometimes referred to as burning mouth syndrome, scalded mouth syndrome, burning tongue syndrome, burning lips syndrome, and glossodynia.
13435	Strabismus is a condition where one's eyes are not able to properly align under normal conditions.One eye is misaligned in relation to the other when focusing on a a subject. Both eyes are not able to focus in unison, in the same direction, at the same point, at the same time.
13436	Strep throat is an infection caused by group A streptococcus bacteria, and it's very frequent among kids and teens.
13437	Infection with Group B Streptococcus (GBS), also called Streptococcus agalactiae, can cause serious illness and sometimes death, especially in newborn infants and the elderly. Group B streptococci are also important pathogens in veterinary medicine, because they can result to bovine mastitis (inflammation of the udder) in dairy cows. The species name "agalactiae" meaning "no milk", refers to this. Streptococcus agalactiae is a gram-positive streptococcus marked by the presence of Group B Lancefield antigen, and so takes the name Group B Streptococcus.
13438	Stretch marks are also termed as striae. These are stripe-like marks on the skin which resulted from rapid gain and loss of weight. It forms when the skin was stretched. In some cases it can also be a result of several skin diseases.
13439	Striae are also commonly termed as stretch marks. These are stripe-like marks on the skin which resulted from rapid gain and loss of weight. It forms when the skin was stretched. In some cases it can also be a result of several skin diseases.
13440	The quick developing failure of brain functions because of a disturbance in the blood vessels that provide blood to the brain. This may happen because of ischemia which is caused by thrombosis or embolism or because of hemorrhage. Medically, stroke can be referred to as ictus which means "to strike" in Latin.
13441	Strongyloidiasis is a human parasitic disease that is caused by the nematode (roundworm) Strongyloides stercoralis. Other Strongyloides include S. fâ¿lleborni, which infects chimpanzees and baboons and may produce a number infections in humans.
13442	The common feature of these syndromes is progressive, often severe, spasticity in the lower extremities of the patient's body. Hereditary spastic paraplegia (HSP) is also known as familial spastic paraparesis and Strumpell-Lorrain syndrome. A number of clinical reports have documented that HSP syndromes are heterogeneous. Syndromes are categorized as uncomplicated or pure when only spinal involvement occurs, and they are classified as complicated when they are associated with neurologic abnormalities such as ataxia, mental retardation, dementia, extrapyramidal dysfunctions, visual or hearing dysfunctions, adrenal insufficiency, and ichthyosis. Inheritance of the disease may be X-linked, autosomal recessive, or autosomal dominant. The most useful classifications now are based on inheritance and genetic linkage. Clinical distinctions between pure and complicated forms of HSP have some utility; however, age of onset usually has no clear relation to the HSP genotype.
13443	Sturge-Weber syndrome, sometimes known as encephalotrigeminal angiomatosis, is an extremely rare congenital neurological and skin disorder.
13444	It is also called as stammering which a speech disorder that includes saying a word, phrase or syllable in a repeated or prolonged manner. What makes stuttering worse are stress, excitement and fatigue though when the patient is relaxed stuttering is decreased.
13445	Sty or hordeolum is a painful, red bump located on the edge or inside of the eyelid that may also look like a pimple or boil. Sty is usually filled with pus. If several sties appear it may cause a swelling of the eyelid known as blepharitis but fortunately sty disappears after a few days.
13446	Subacute sclerosing panencephalitis (SSPE) is a rare chronic, progressive encephalitis that mainly affects children and young adults, caused by a persistent infection of immune resistant measles virus.
13447	A subdural hematoma is the result of a head injury. Intracranial hematoma occurs after a blood vessel ruptures in the brain or between the skull and brain producing blood that compresses the brain tissue.
13448	A subdural hematoma is the result of a head injury. Intracranial hematoma occurs after a blood vessel ruptures in the brain or between the skull and brain producing blood that compresses the brain tissue.
13449	Subfertility, also known as infertility, is the inability of a couple to get pregnant despite a year of frequent and unprotected sex.
13450	Succinic semialdehyde dehydrogenase deficiency (SSADH) is a rare metabolic disorder marked by lack of the enzyme involved in the degradation of GABA, the major inhibitory neurotransmitter in the brain.
13451	Sucrose intolerance, also known as Congenital Sucrase-Isomaltase Deficiency (CSID) or Sucrase-isomaltase deficiency, is the condition in which sucrase, an enzyme needed for proper metabolization of sucrose, is not produced in the small intestine. The result of consuming sucrose is excess gas production and typically diarrhea and malabsorption.
13452	Sudden adult death syndrome (SADS) is an unexpected halt in the body systems leading to immediate death. There are no symptoms of death but warning signs include sudden loss of consciousness while in the middle of strenuous activities. Cardiac arrhythmias usually are the cause of SADS. Prevention can be done by taking meta-blocker medications to reduce the onset of cardiac arhrythmias.
13453	SADS is a medical term used to explain unexpected death because of cardiac arrest caused by arrhythmia. Around 300,000 people die from SADS every year in the US.
13454	Sudden cardiac arrest pertains to a sudden, unexpected loss of breathing, heart function, and consciousness. Also known as sudden cardiac death, this condition is a medical emergency that, if untreated, can be fatal.
13455	Sudden cardiac death (also known as sudden arrest) is death resulting from an abrupt loss of heart function (cardiac arrest). The victim may or may not have already been diagnosed with heart disease. The time and mode of death are both unexpected. It occurs within minutes after symptoms arise.
13456	Sudden infant death syndrome (SIDS), is the unexplained death in infants ages 1 to 12 months old. This phenomenon is common among infants with low birth weight. SIDS is the third main cause of death among infants in the United States.
13457	Sudeck's atrophy, or Reflex Sympathetic Dystrophy Syndrome (RSDS) is the inflammation of the muscle joints due to an incurred injury. This condition arises after a patient has undergone treatment for the affected joint.
13458	Sugarman syndrome (also known as Sugarman brachydactyly) is the common name of oral-facial-digital syndrome type III, one of ten distinct genetic disorders that are involved in the developmental defects to the mouth
13459	Sulfite oxidase deficiency is a congenital error of the metabolism of sulfated amino acids. Individuals affected with sulfite oxidase deficiency typically present in the neonatal period with intractable seizures, characteristic dysmorphic features, and profound mental retardation.
13460	Sun stroke is a condition where the body responds to extreme heat through high body temperature and abnormal sweat functions. This is usually caused by prolonged exposure under the sun.
13461	Sunburn is a condition in which the skin becomes red, painful skin that feels hot to the touch resulting from intense sun exposure.
13462	Superficial thrombophlebitis is the inflammation of a superficial vein, resulting from a blood clot, often caused by prolonged inactivity.
13463	Progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP), also called Steele-Richardson-Olszewski syndrome, is a neurodegenerative disease that affects cognition, eye movements, and posture.
13464	Supraspinatus tendonitis is the inflammation of the supraspinatus tendon due repetitive stress.
13465	Surfer's nodules are skin lesions that grow on the ankles, soles and dorsal areas of the foot. This is common ailment among surfers. Surfer's nodules are caused by trauma and skin injuries suffered by the foot. Inflammation also occurs when the nodules begin to develop.
13466	Suriphobia (also called musophobia) is a fear of mice or other small rodents, from the French "souris" meaning mouse and the Greek "phobia" meaning fear. It is a specific phobia, unlike social phobias or agoraphobia, and like all phobias, the fear must be intense, irrational and persistent to be considered a true clinical phobia.
13467	Susac's syndrome (Retinocochleocerebral Vasculopathy) is a microangiopathy marked by encephalopathy, branch retinal artery occlusions and hearing loss.
13468	Difficulty swallowing may be a medical condition in which an individual needs more time and effort to move his or her food or liquid from the mouth to the stomach. The condition may also be associated with pain. The condition is also known as dysphagia.
13469	Sweaty sock syndrome or medically termed as juvenile plantar dermatosis is a condition of the skin. In this condition, the skin on the soles becomes scaly and red which usually affects children and young teenagers.
13470	Sweeley-Klionsky disease (also known as Anderson-Fabry disease, Angiokeratoma corporis diffusum, Ceramide trihexosidosis, and Fabry disease) is an X-linked recessive (inherited) lysosomal storage disease.
13471	Sweet's syndrome is a skin disorder marked by fever and painful skin lesions.
13472	Swift disease is another name for mercury poisoning. It is a disease caused by exposure to the metal mercury. This can cause serious health problems ranging from liver and gastrointestinal poisoning.
13473	Swimmer's ear is an infection of the outer ear and ear canal. It can be associated with a middle ear infection (otitis media) if the eardrum gets ruptured.
13474	Swimmer's itch is an immune reaction also is only short-term that occurs in the skin of individuals that have been infected by water-borne trematode parasites.
13474	Swimmers' itch is an itchy rash due to parasites that has burrowed in the skin while swimming in parasite-infested water. The condition is also called cercarial dermatitis.
13475	Swimming pool granuloma is a bacterial infection caused by the microorganism named Mycobacterium marinum.
13476	Swelling of lymph nodes typically results from localized or systemic infection, abscess formation, or malignancy
13477	Swyer syndrome, or XY gonadal dysgenesis, is a kind of female hypogonadism in which no functional gonads are present to induce puberty in an otherwise normal girl whose karyotype is then found to be XY.
13478	Sydenham's chorea (also known as "Saint Vitus Dance") is a disease marked by rapid, uncoordinated jerking movements affecting primarily the face, feet and hands.
13479	Sympathetic ophtalmitis or SO for brevity is a medical condition referring to the granulomatous Uveitis which is a kind of inflammation of both eyes as a result of a trauma to one eye.
13480	Synaesthesia is the condition where the stimulation of one sense gives off a perception which should be elicited by another sense. An example of this is a loud noise: it's the ears that should perceive the event, but in synaesthesia, the loud bang is represented by a blinding light. Synaesthesia often occurs during sleep, when one is dreaming.
13481	Vasovagal syncope is the most common kind of fainting. There are several syncope syndromes which all fall under the umbrella of vasovagal syncope. The common element among these conditions is the central mechanism leading to a loss of consciousness. The differences among them are in the factors which trigger the syncope.
13482	Syndactyly is a condition where two or more digits are fused together. It happens normally in some mammals, such as the siamang but is an unusual condition in humans.
13483	The syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone (SIADH) is a condition generally found in the hospital population, especially in patients being hospitalized for central nervous system (CNS) injury. This is a syndrome marked by excessive release of antidiuretic hormone (ADH or vasopressin) from the posterior pituitary gland or another source.
13484	Syndrom x (also known as Metabolic syndrome) is a combination of medical disorders that increase the risk of developing cardiovascular disease and diabetes. It affects a great number of people, and prevalence increases with age.
13485	Synesthesia is a condition in which one sense (like hearing) is simultaneously perceived as if by one or more additional senses such as sight.
13486	Craniosynostosis is a congenital defect resulting to an abnormally developed brain and misshapen head.
13487	Synovial osteochondromatosis (SOC) is a rare disease that creates a harmless change or proliferation in the synovium or joint lining tissue which changes to form bone forming cartilage. Typically there is only one joint affected, mostly either the knee, hip, or elbow.
13488	A synovial sarcoma is a rare form of cancer which typically occurs near to the joints of the arm or leg, and is one of the soft tissue sarcomas.
13489	Synovitis is the medical term for inflammation of a synovial membrane, which line the joints which possess cavities, called synovial joints. The condition is typically painful, particularly when the joint is moved. The joint usually swells because of fluid collection.
13490	Syphilis is a bacterial infection typically transmitted by sexual contact. The disease affects the genitals, skin and mucous membranes, but it may also involve many other parts of the body, including the brain and the heart.
13491	Syringobulbia is a neurological disorder marked by a fluid-filled cavity (syrinx) within the spinal cord that extends to involve the brainstem (medulla). It typically occurs as a slit-like gap within the lower brainstem that may affect one or more of the cranial nerves, causing facial palsies of various kinds. Additionally, sensory and motor nerve pathways may be affected by compression and/or interruption. This disorder is closely associated with syringomyelia, in which the syrinx is limited to the spinal cord, and to the Chiari I malformation.
13492	Syringomas are harmless adnexal tumors derived from the intraepidermal portion of eccrine sweat ducts. Generally, they present as soft, flesh-colored to slightly yellow dermal papules on the lower eyelids of healthy individuals.
13493	Syringomyelia (SM) is a disorder in which a cyst develops within the spinal cord. This cyst, known as a syrinx, expands and elongates over time, destroying the center of the cord.
13494	Scleroderma is a chronic disease marked by excessive deposits of collagen in the skin or other organs. The localized type of the disease, while disabling, does not tend to be fatal. The systemic type or systemic sclerosis, the generalized type of the disease, can be fatal as a result of heart, lung, kidney, or intestinal damage autoimmune disease.
13495	Carnitine deficiency is a metabolic state in which carnitine concentrations in plasma and tissues are less than the levels needed for normal function of the organism. Biologic effects of low carnitine levels may not be clinically significant until they reach less than 10-20% of the norm.
13496	Systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE or lupus) is a chronic autoimmune disease that can be fatal, though with recent medical advances, fatalities are becoming increasingly less. As with other autoimmune diseases, the immune system attacks the body's cells and tissue, causing inflammation and tissue damage.
13497	Systemic mastocytosis, often called systemic mast cell disease (SMCD), is marked by mast cell infiltration of extracutaneous organs, which is in contrast to cutaneous mast cell disorders, which involve only the skin.
13498	Cutaneous T-Cell lymphoma (CTCL) is a type of non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, which is a type of cancer of the immune system.
13499	Idiopathic CD4+ lymphocytopenia (ICL) is a depletion of CD4+ lymphocytes below 300 per cubic millimeter, or less than one-fourth of total lymphocytes, in the absence of HIV infection or other known causes of immunodeficiency. This is a rare, heterogeneous syndrome and does not seem to be caused by a transmissible agent. People with ICL are susceptible to opportunistic infections, such as cryptococcus, atypical mycobacterial and Pneumocystis jiroveci pneumonia (PCP).
13500	Tabes dorsalis is another name for locomotor ataxia, or the paralysis of the motor nerves. This is the degeneration of the motor nerves in the spinal cord resulting to incontrollable urination, loss of coordination and dystrophy. This condition is usually a result of syphilis.
13501	A heart rate over 100 beats a minute is known as tachycardia. Some tachycardias are relatively benign and need no treatment, but others can be life-threatening.
13502	Tachypnea otherwise known as tachypnoea is a medical condition that is characterized by rapid breathing and is usually necessary for the body's need for gas exchange.
13503	Taeniasis is a tapeworm (cestode) infection that is acquired by the ingestion of raw or undercooked meat of infected animals. Although many species exist, two species, Taenia saginata and Taenia solium, result to pathology in humans. T. saginata is linked with the ingestion of the worm's larval form found in infected beef while T. solium is associated with that of infected pork.
13504	Tailbone pain, also known as coccydynia, refers to the inflammation of the coccyx, the bone located in between the buttocks.
13505	Takayasu arteritis (TA) is classically defined as a chronic, progressive, occlusive, inflammatory disease of the aorta and its branches. The pulmonary arteries may also be concerned. Takayasu arteritis is a systemic disease that can have isolated, atypical, and catastrophic manifestations.
13506	Takayasu's arteritis is categorized as a rather uncommon form of vasculitis. It features a spectrum of conditions that is characterized by an inflammation of the blood vessels. Takayasu's arteritis causes damage to the large arteries particularly the aorta, the principal blood vessel that is responsible for carrying blood from the heart to the rest of the organs in the body.
13507	Talipes is a congenital deformity in which a person suffers from a clubfoot. The condition is caused by a genetic disorder which results to shortened muscles and tendons in the foot.
13508	A clubfoot, or talipes equinovarus (TEV), is a birth defect wherein the foot is twisted in (inverted) and down.
13509	Tangier disease is a rare inherited disorder marked by a severe reduction in the amount of high density lipoprotein (HDL), often referred to as "good cholesterol," in the bloodstream.
13510	Tapeworm infection is the occurrence of tapeworms that may form into cysts affecting other tissues such as the lungs and liver, or the develop into adult tapeworms inside the intestines.
13511	TAR Syndrome (Thrombocytopenia with Absent radius) is a rare genetic disorder which is marked by the absence of the radius bone in the forearm, and a dramatically reduced platelet count. Symptoms of thrombocytopenia, or a lowered platelet count, results to bruising and potentially life-threatening haemorrhage.
13512	Tardive dyskinesia is a symptom caused by the long-term or high-dose use of dopamine antagonists, usually antipsychotics, but also those such as antiemetic metoclopramide. These neuroleptic drugs are typically prescribed for psychiatric disorders.
13513	Tarsal tunnel syndrome is a compression, or squeezing, on the posterior tibial nerve that gives out symptoms anywhere along the path of the nerve.
13514	Taurodontism is a condition of teeth where the body of the tooth and pulp chamber is enlarged. Because of this, the floor of the pulp and the furcation of the tooth is moved apically down the root. The term means "bull like" teeth coming from similarity of these teeth to those of ungulate or cud chewing animals.
13515	Tay syndrome is a recessive hereditary disease marked by trichothiodystrophy (sulfur-deficient brittle hair) with photosensitivity, ichthyosiform erythroderma (fish-like scales on skin), dystrophic (abnormal) finger and toe-nails, progeria-like faces (prematurely aged looking face), growth and mental retardation, infertility and variable other defects.
13516	Tay-Sachs disease (TSD, also known as GM2 gangliosidosis, Hexosaminidase A deficiency or Sphingolipidosis) is a genetic disorder, fatal in its most common variant known as Infantile Tay-Sachs disease.
13517	Teeth grinding, which is also known as bruxism is the unconscious clenching, grinding, or gnashing of teeth.
13518	Telangiectasia are small dilated blood vessels near the surface of the skin; typically, they measure only a few millimeters. They can develop anywhere on the body but are frequently found on the face around the nose, cheeks, and chin.
13519	In medicine, hereditary hemorrhagic telangiectasia (HHT), also called Osler-Weber-Rendu syndrome, is an autosomal dominant genetic disorder that leads to vascular malformations.
13520	Temporal arteritis is a condition in which the lining of the arteries is inflamed. Affect arteries may be in the neck, upper body and arms, but usually occurs in the head especially the arteries in the temples. The condition is also called giant cell arteritis, cranial arteritis, or granulomatous arteritis.
13521	Temporal lobe epilepsy is a form of epilepsy, a chronic neurological condition marked by recurrent seizures.
13522	Temporal lobe seizure is a type of complex partial seizure that is usually localized to one part of the brain.
13523	TMJ syndrome is used to refer to the problems occurring in the temporomandibular joint which is the joint of the jaw and the tendons, muscles, ligaments, blood vessels and other tissues related with the joint. It is also referred to as disc displacement where in the articular disc is not in place.
13524	Temporomandibular joint dysfunction (TJD), also known as myofacial pain dysfunction, is problematic state of the jaw muscles used for chewing, or of the temporomandibular joint, which links the lower jaw to the rest of the skull.
13525	Toxic Epidermal Necrolysis (TEN), also known as Lyell's syndrome, is a life-threatening dermatological condition that is commonly induced by a reaction to medications. It is marked by the detachment of the top layer of skin (the epidermis) from the lower layers of the skin (the dermis) all over the body.
13526	Tendinitis is the condition in which a tendon is inflamed or irritated causing pain and tenderness just outside a joint.
13527	Tennis elbow or lateral epicondylitis, is an injury to the elbow resulting from overuse.
13528	Teratomas are tumors made up of more than a single cell type derived from more than one germ layer.
13529	Terminal ileitis, or enteritis, is a chronic inflammation of the small intestine. It is characterized by swelling and perforated small intestines due to ruptures and acidic reactions.
13530	Testes neoplasm is a cancer (malignant) that develops in the tissues of one or both testicles.
13531	Undescended testicle, also referred to as cryptorchidism, is a condition in which the testes did not completely descend into the scrotum.
13532	Testicular cancer is known as disease wherein the cells become cancerous either in one or both testicles. The testicles are a pair of male sex organs that produce and store sperm and the main source of testosterone in men.
13532	Testicular cancer is characterized by a growth of a malignant mass in the testicles or testes, which are located inside the scrotum below the penis of males.
13533	Testicular torsion is a condition in which blood flow to the testicle is cut off causing sudden and severe pain and swelling due to the rotation of a testicle on the spermatic cord.
13534	Testosterone deficiency or male hypogonadism is the body's insufficient production of the sex hormone testosterone.
13535	Tetanus is a medical condition that is marked by a prolonged contraction of skeletal muscle fibers. The primary symptoms are caused by tetanospasmin, a neurotoxin given out by the Gram-positive, obligate anaerobic bacterium Clostridium tetani.
13536	Tetany is a medical sign where there is an involuntary contraction of the muscles caused by certain diseases and other conditions that increases the other conditions that tends to increase the action potential frequency.
13537	Tethered Spinal Cord is an uncommon neurological disorder.
13538	Tethered spinal cord syndrome otherwise known as the Occult Spinal Dysraphism Sequence is a neurological disorder that is caused by tissue attachments causing preventing movement of spinal cord within the spinal column.
13539	It is a congenital heart defect that originally has four anatomical components and also it is the most common cyanotic heart defect and most usual cause of blue baby syndrome.
13540	Tetrapelgia, also known as quadriplegia or spinal cord injury, is the parlysis of most of the body that includes the arms and legs.
13541	Tetraploidy is a very rare chromosomal disorder which leads to various abnormalities. Infants are often stillborn or die within months of birth
13542	Thalassemia, also called as Mediterranean Anemia, Cooley's Anemia or Homozygous Beta Thalassemia, is a group of inherited disorders in which there is a fault in the production of hemoglobin (oxygen-carrying pigment found in red blood cells).
13543	Thalassemia major is an inherited form of hemolytic anemia, marked by red blood cell (hemoglobin) production abnormalities. This is the most extreme form of anemia, and the oxygen depletion in the body becomes apparent within the first 6 months of life. If left untreated, death generally results within a few years.
13544	Thalassemia minor is an inherited form of hemolytic anemia that is less extreme than thalassemia major. These small red blood cells (RBCs) carry less oxygen than normal RBCs.
13545	Thallium Poisoning is a medical condition caused by exposure and ingestion of thallium which is a soft and malleable metal that was usually used to poison rats.
13546	While everyone has a rational fear of personal death built in as original equipment, thantophobia or necrophobia is extreme and irrational fear of personal death, situations involving death (such as funerals) or dead things.
13547	Thiamin Deficiency otherwise known as Beriberi, is a medical condition that refers to the lack of thiamine pyrophospate, which is the active form of vitamin known as Vitamin B-1, which acts as a coenzyme in carbohydrate metabolism and the formation of glucose.
13548	Thoracic outlet syndrome (TOS) is made up of a group of distinct disorders that affect the nerves in the brachial plexus (nerves that pass into the arms from the neck) and the subclavian artery and vein blood vessels between the base of the neck and axilla (armpit).
13549	Throat cancer is a type of carcinoma affecting the pharynx (which connects the mouth and the nasal cavity), vocal cords, and/or the larynx or voice box.
13550	Glanzmann's thrombasthenia is an extremely rare disorder of the blood, wherein the platelets lack glycoprotein IIb/IIIa. Hence, no fibrinogen bridging can arise, and bleeding time is significantly prolonged.
13551	Thromboangiitis obliterans also known as Buerger's disease is a condition in which blood flowing in the blood vessels are impaired due to inflammation and clots. The disease affects arms and legs damaging destroying the tissues, which may lead to infection and gangrene.
13552	Thrombocytopathy is any of several blood disorders characterized by dysfunctional platelets (thrombocytes), which leads to prolonged bleeding time, defective clot formation, and a tendency to hemorrhage.
13553	Thrombocytopenia is the presence of relatively few platelets in one's blood.
13554	It is a disorder distinguished by the non-appearance of the radius bone in the forearm and severely decreased platelet count that leads to marking and potentially life-threatening haemorrhage.
13555	Thrombocytopenia absent radius syndrome is a rare genetic disorder characterized by low amounts of blood platelets and the absence of radii (forearm bones). Some patients meanwhile have an underdeveloped set of forearm bones accompanied with congenital heart defects and short stature.
13556	Idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura (ITP) is a bleeding condition in which the blood doesn't clot as it is supposed to. This is because of a low number of blood cells called platelets.
13557	Autoimmune thrombocytopenic purpura (or ATP) is a rare blood disorder where a low number of platelets prevents the blood's ability to clot and results in bleeding into the skin and mucous membranes.
13558	Thrombocytosis is the presence of high platelet counts in the blood, and can be either reactive or primary.
13559	Thromboembolism is the medical condition whereby there is a formation of clot or thrombos is the blood vessels that breaks loose and carried by bloodstream to plug another vesses in the lungs, brain,gastrointestinal tract, kidneys and leg.
13560	Thrombophlebitis or phlebitis is a condition in which a vein is inflamed due to a blood clot.
13561	It is the development of a clot or thrombus inside the blood vessel, blocking the flow of blood through the circulatory system. The general term is thromboembolism which describes both thrombosis and its primary complication that is embolisation.
13562	The term thrombotic microangiopathy (TMA) refers to a lesion of vessel wall thickening (mainly arterioles or capillaries), intraluminal platelet thrombosis, and partial or complete obstruction of the vessel lumina. Depending on whether renal or brain lesions prevail, two pathologically indistinguishable but somehow clinically different entities have been distinguished: the hemolytic uremic syndrome (HUS) and the thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura (TTP). Injury to the endothelial cell is the central and likely inciting factor in the sequence of events resulting to TMA.
13563	Candidiasis, commonly known as yeast infection or thrush, is a fungal infection (mycosis) of any of the Candida species, of which Candida albicans is the most common.
13564	Thymic carcinoma is a rare type of thymus gland cancer. It often spreads, has a high risk of recurrence, and has a poor survival rate. Thymic carcinoma is divided into subtypes, depending on the types of cells in which the cancer developed.
13565	In medicine (oncology), thymoma is a tumor progressing from the thymus. It is made up of any type of thymic epithelial cell as well as lymphocytes that are typically abundant and probably not neoplastic.
13566	Thymus cancer is a type of cancer that usually affects the small organ in the upper chest just below the breast bone known as the thymus.
13567	A thyroglossal cyst is a fibrous cyst that develops from a persistent thyroglossal duct
13568	Thyroid cancer refers to one of four kinds of malignant tumors of the thyroid gland: papillary, follicular, medullary and anaplastic.
13569	Follicular thyroid carcinoma (abbreviated to FTC) is a well-differentiated tumor. In fact, FTC mirrors that of the normal microscopic pattern of the thyroid. FTC originates in follicular cells and is the second most commonly-found cancer of the thyroid after papillary carcinoma.
13570	Papillary carcinoma is the more commonly-found and well-differentiated cancer of the thyroid. Papillary/follicular carcinoma should be considered a variant of the papillary thyroid carcinoma (mixed form). Despite its well-differentiated traits, papillary carcinoma may be overtly or minimally invasive. In fact, these tumors may spread easily to other organs inside the body. Papillary carcinoma appears as an irregularly-shaped solid or cystic mass in a normal thyroid parenchyma.
13571	It is generally known to be the swelling of the thyroid gland which is located on the front of the neck below the Adam's apple. The most common kind of thyroiditis is the Hashimoto's thyroiditis. The other kinds are postpartum thyroiditis, subacute thyroiditis, silent thyroiditis, drug-induced thyroiditis, radiation-induced thryroiditis and acute thyroiditis.
13572	Tic Douleureux is another name for short-lived trigeminal neuralgia. This condition still affects the trigeminal nerve, but rather than feeling painful sensations for long periods of time, the pain only lasts for a few minutes.
13573	Tic douloureux or trigeminal neuralgia is a condition in which the trigeminal nerve function is disrupted. Sensation from the face to the brain is carried by the trigeminal nerve.
13574	Usually caused by ticks where in it's the general name for small arachnids in the Ixodoidea superfamily together with other mites that comprises the Acarina.
13575	Tick paralysis is the only tick-borne disease that is not due to an infectious organism. The illness is the result of a neurotoxin produced in the tick's salivary gland. After prolonged attachment, the engorged tick releases the toxin to its host.
13576	Tick-borne encephalitis, or TBE, is a human viral infectious disease concrened with the central nervous system. The disease most often manifests as meningitis (inflammation of the membrane that surrounds the brain and spinal cord), encephalitis (inflammation of the brain), or meningoencephalitis (inflammation of both the brain and meninges). Although TBE is most commonly recognized as a neurologic disease, mild febrile illnesses can also arise.
13577	Tietz syndrome is a condition marked by deafness and albinism.
13578	Tietze syndrome, also known as costochondritis, is the swelling of the rib cage due to injuries and other underlying diseases that affect the rib cage cartilage.
13579	Tinea otherwise known as Dermatophytes is a fungeal infection that is caused by a group of fungi that usually invades the dead keratin of the skin, hair and nails. It may be spread from person to person or anthropophili animal to person or zoophilic.
13580	Tinea barbae is a superficial form of folliculitis, which is an infection of the hair follicles.
13581	Tinea capitis is a fungal infection affecting the scalp, skin, and nails. It is also known as ringworm of the scalp.
13582	Tinea versicolor is a common fungal skin infection resulting in abnormal skin pigmentation. The condition is also known as pityriasis versicolor.
13583	Tinnitus is the perception of sound in the human ear even without any corresponding external sound(s).
13584	Tiredness in children is an effect of too much stress caused by strenuous activities children engage in such as sports and contact games.
13585	Todd's paresis or Todd's paralysis is focal weakness in a part of the body after a seizure. This weakness usually affects appendages and is localized to either the left or right side of the body. It typically subsides completely within 48 hours.
13586	Togaviridae disease is an infection with any of a number of togaviridae viruses which can cause conditions such as Equine encephalitis, Ross River virus and Rubella virus. Symptoms are determined by the type of virus concerned. Togaviridae are arboviruses and are passed on by arthropods.
13587	Tolosa-Hunt syndrome (THS) is a rare disorder marked by severe and unilateral headaches with extraocular palsies, usually involving the third, fourth, fifth, and sixth cranial nerves, and pain around the sides and back of the eye, along with weakness and paralysis (ophthalmoplegia) of certain eye muscles.
13588	Tongue neoplasm is a new abnormal tongue tissue that grows by excessive cellular division and proliferation more rapidly than normal and continues to grow after the stimuli that initiated the new growth cease.
13589	Tonic-clonic seizure, also known as grand mal seizure, is a condition in which an individual lose consciousness and experience violent muscle contractions.
13590	It is basically the infection of the tonsils and may or may not cause a fever or sore throat. There are three types of tonsillitis which are acute which can be viral or bacterial, subacute which is caused by the bacterium Actinomyces that can last for at least three to three months and chronic that can last for long periods if not immediately treated.
13591	Tooth decay in children is a common dental health problem in which the teeth deteriorates due to poor dental hygiene. It is common among children to suffer from tooth decay, given their immense appetite for sweets.
13592	Medically, referred to as odontalgia that is experiencing pain in or around a tooth.
13593	TORCH or TORCHES infections are a group of viral, and seldom bacterial infections, which gain access to the fetal bloodstream transplacentally via the chorionic villi.
13594	Torn meniscus is a condition in which the knee is forcefully twisted or rotated due to certain activities.
13595	Torticollis, or wry neck, is a condition in which the head is tilted toward one side, and the chin is raised and turned toward the opposite side.
13596	Torulopsis is a type of yeast infection caused by Torulopsis glabrata. The fungus is usually found in normal healthy skin, respiratory system, genitourinary system and gastrointestinal system and it generally only becomes a problem in weakened or immunocompromised people.
13597	Touraine-Solente-GolÎ˜ syndrome is marked by cutis verticis gyrata (corrugated overgrowth of the scalp, or so-called "bull-dog scalp" lesions) also involving the forehead, face, and extremities; clubbing of the digits due to soft tissue hyperplasia; elephantiasis of long bones, enormously large hands and feet; periosteal lesions, fatigability, blepharitis, arthralgia, periosteal overgrowth, and occasionally pulmonary osteoarthropathy. This syndrome occurs almost exclusively in males, though it is more severe in females. It occurs at the time of puberty, up to third decade, with the general health and mental status not affected. It is inherited dominantly with variability of expression. This condition is distinguished from the Brugsch syndrome by the presence of acromegaly.
13598	Tourette syndrome is an inherited neuropsychiatric disorder with onset in childhood, characterized by the presence of multiple physical (motor) tics and at least one vocal (phonic) tic; these tics characteristically wax and wane.
13599	Townes-Brocks syndrome (TBS) is a rare genetic disease that affects fewer than 200 people in the whole world. It is a genetic condition that affects several parts of the body.
13600	Toxemia is also called preeclampsia occurs during pregnancy in which the patient has high blood pressure and excess protein in the urine after 20 weeks of pregnancy.
13601	Toxic hepatitis is an inflammation of the liver, which occurs when toxic chemicals, drugs, or certain poisonous mushrooms has damaged the liver.
13602	Toxic shock syndrome is a rare, life-threatening bacterial infection that has been most often linked with the use of superabsorbent tampons and occasionally with the use of contraceptive sponges.
13603	Toxocariasis (or Toxocarosis) is a helminth infection of humans caused by the dog or cat roundworm, Toxocara canis or Toxocara cati, respectively. It is an infection that is caused by the accidental ingestion of larvae of the dog roundworm Toxocara canis or the cat roundworm Toxocara cati. The soil of parks and playgrounds is commonly contaminated with the eggs of T canis, and infection may result to human disease in the liver, lung, muscle, eye, and brain.
13604	A parasitic disease caused by the protozoan Toxoplasma gondii, Toxoplasmosis infects most warm-blooded animals, including humans. This primary host of the disease however is the felid (cat) family. It is estimated that up to one third of the world's population carries a Toxoplasma infection.
13605	Congenital toxoplasmosis is the infection caused by the protozoan Toxoplasma gondii that is transmitted to the fetus during pregnancy.
13606	Also known as TEF, tracheoesophageal fistuka is an abnormal connection between the esophagus and the trachea, and is a common congenital abnormality.
13607	The leading cause of blindness around the world, Trachoma is an infectious eye disease that resulted to about 8 million, visually-impaired people around the world. According to studies, the disease results to an estimated US $ 2.9 billion in lost productivity every year.
13608	Transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation (TENS) is procedure wherein a device sends electrical current to the nerves. This is a painless procedure used to relieve pain, stiffness and immobility of the muscles that give the patient muscle pain. It can also be used to administer steroids into inflamed muscles as well enhance the production of endorphins in the body.
13609	This disease is a slowly developing anemia of early childhood, which is characterized by a gradual onset of pallor. It is also known as TEC. The disease means new red blood cells are temporarily not produced.
13610	Also known as TGA, this disease is an anxiety-producing temporary loss of short-term memory. Patients typically will not remember events for the past few hours and not be able to retain new information for more than a few minutes.
13611	Transient ischemic attack is a temporary or intermittent neurological event, which serves as a warning of an impending stroke.
13612	Originating in the kidney, bladder or ureter, Transitional cell carcinoma is a type of cancer and is the most common type of bladder cancer. The disease arises from the transitional epithelium lining found in said organs.
13613	Translocation, or chromosomal translocation, is a genetic disorder in which chromosomes break off and attach to another chromosome. Translocations are caused by poor genetic makeup and evolve over generations. Among the common chromosomal translocations is chronic myelogenic leukemia as well as hemophilia. Genetic counseling is likewise recommended to persons with chromosomal translocations.
13614	Transposition of the great vessels or TGV involves an abnormal spatial arrangement of the primary blood vessels including the superior and/or inferior vena cavae (SVC,IVC), pulmonary artery, pulmonary veins, and aorta. It also belongs to a group of congenital heart defects (CHDs) involving only the primary arteries, belonging to a sub-group called the transposition of the great arteries.
13615	Caused by an inflammatory process of the grey and white matter of the spinal cord, Transverse myelitis is a neurological disorder that can also cause axonal demyelination.
13616	Travel sickness, also known as motion sickness, is a psychosomatic disorder wherein people are subject to yawing, pitching and swaying motions. This can be observed while traveling in ships, airplanes and even in automobiles.
13617	Travellers' Diarrhoea this is common when travellers visit a place that has poor sanitation. Travellers' Diarrhoea is characterized by elevated frequency of formless bowel movements and is usually comes with abdominal cramps, urgency, vomiting, swelling, fever, and depression.
13618	Also known as Franceschetti-Zwahlen-Kleain syndrome or mandibulo facial dysostosis, Treacher Collins syndrome is a rare genetic disorder characterized by craniofacial deformities. Found in 10,000 births, the disease's typical features include downward slanting eyes, a small lower jaw, and malformed or absent ears.
13619	Also known as essential tremor or ET, Tremor hereditary essential is a neurological disorder characterized by shaking of hands and sometimes the other parts of the body such as the head, induced by intentional movements. Though the exact incident is unknown, ET is presumed to be the most common type of tremor and also the most commonly observed movement disorder. The disease was also previously known as "benign essential tremor" but the "benign" was removed due to the sometimes disabling nature of the disorder.
13620	Trench mouth is severe type of gingivitis that usually causes painful, bleeding, infected gums and ulcerations. Usually develops in nations that have poor nutrition and poor living conditions.
13620	Trench mouth is a severe form of gingivitis that results to painful, infected, bleeding gums, and ulcerations. It is also referred to as Vincent's stomatitis and acute necrotizing ulcerative gingivitis.
13621	Transmitted through sexual contact, treponema is a rare infection caused by the Treponema pallidum bacterium. The bacteria enters the host via breaches in squamous or columnar epithelium. It can also be transmitted to a fetus by transplacental passage during the later stages of pregnancy.
13622	Treponema pallidum is a subspecies of the bacteria-like spirochete pallidum, which causes a highly contagious disease known as syphilis.
13623	Also known as trichinosis or trichiniasis, Trichinillosis is an infection due to the roundworm Trichinella spiralis.
13624	Also known as trichinellosis or trichiniasis, Trichinosis is an infection due to the roundworm Trichinella spiralis.
13625	Sometimes referred to as "trich," Trichomoniasis is a common sexually transmitted disease caused by the single-celled protozoan parasite Trichomonas vaginalis. Trich is primarily an infection of the genitourinary tract. The disease is most common among women and uncircumcised men.
13626	Trichothiodystrophy is a characterization of the recessive hereditary disease Tay syndrome. Trichothiodystrophy means sulfur-deficient brittle hair with photosensitivity, ichthyosiform erythroderma (fish-like scales on skin), dystrophic or abnormal finger and toe nails, progeria-like faces or prematurely aged looking face, growth and mental retardation, infertility, and variable other defects.
13627	Commonly known as 'trich," Trichotillomania or TTM is an impulse control disorder characterized by the repeated urge to pull out scalp hair, eyelashes, facial hair, nose hair, pubic hair, eyebrows or other body hair, that may result in noticeable bald spots. Though classified in the DSM-IV as an impulse control disorder, there are still questions about how it should be classified.
13628	A form of congenital heart disease, Tricuspid atresia is the complete absence of the tricuspid valve, causing the absence of right atrioventricular connection. This disorder is contracted during prenatal development, when the heart does not finish developing.
13629	Also known as Tic Douloureux or prosopalgia, Trigeminal neuralgia is a neuropathic disorder of the trigeminal nerve that causes episodes of intense pain in the eyes, lips, nose, scalp, forehead, and jaw. The disease usually develops after the age of 40 but there have been cases where patients are as young as 3 years old.
13630	Trigger finger is a condition where a person suffers from extreme pain due to the twitching of tendons especially when one snaps his fingers.
13631	Trigger finger or trigger thumb is a stenosing tenosynovitis disorder where the sheath around the tendon in a thumb or finger becomes swollen, or nodules from on the tendon. Though it usually affects the thumb, more than one finger may be affected at a time including the middle finger or ring finger.
13632	Trimethylaminuria (TMAU) or fish odor syndrome or fish malador syndrome is a metabolic disorder, in which the body is unable to break down trimethylamine, a compound derived from the diet that has a strong odor of rotting fish.
13633	Triple-A syndrome or Allgrove syndrome is a rare autosomal recessive disorder discovered by Jeremy Allgrove and colleagues in 1978. The name Triple A stands for achalasia-addisonianism-alacrima syndrome. This means that affected individuals have adrenal insufficiency, alacrima (absence of tear secretion), and achalasia. The latter means failure of a ring of muscle fibers such as the sphincter, to relax.
13634	A form of chromosomal variation, Triple X syndrome is characterized by the presence of X chromosome in each cell of a human female. The condition also known as triplo-X, trisomy X, XXX syndrome, and 47, XXX aneuploidy, it results during a division of a parent's reproductive cells, which occurs once in every 1,000 births.
13635	This disorder is an extremely rare chromosomal disorder. Affected individuals have 3 chromosomes for a total of sixty-nine rather than the normal 46 chromosomes. Unborn children with Triploid syndrome are usually lost through early miscarriage but those who make it survive for as long as five months.
13636	This disorder is a rare lethal chromosome abnormality caused by the presence of an entire extra set of chromosomes. Unborn children with triploidy has 69 chromosomes rather than 46. Most fetuses are miscarried during pregnancy and those that survive usually have severe growth retardation and multiple birth defects.
13637	This disorder is a form of aneuploidy that has a presence of 3 copies instead of the normal 2, of a particular chromosome. An extra chromosome 21, found in Down syndrome, is called trisomy 21.
13638	Trisomy 21 syndrome is a form of down syndrome, which is caused by the abnormal cell division involving the 21st chromosome during the development of the sperm cell or the egg cell.
13639	Gestational trophoblastic disease or also known as Trophoblastic neoplasms is a quick growing form of cancer that occurs in a woman's uterus after a pregnancy, miscarriage, or abortion. The disease is usually metastatic, which means it spreads to other places in the body. It is also known as choriocarcinoma.
13640	Also known as Gestational trophoblastic disease or Trophoblastic neoplasms a Trophoblastic tumor is a quick growing form of cancer that occurs in a woman's uterus after a pregnancy, miscarriage, or abortion. The disease is usually metastasizes and spreads to other places in the body. It's other name is choriocarcinoma.
13641	Commonly found in the tropical regions, Tropical sprue is a malabsorption disease marked with abnormal flattening of the villi and inflammation of the lining of the small intestine.
13642	Called Trypanophobia, this disorder is the extreme and irrational fear of medical procedures involving injections or hypodermic needles. It is occasionally referred to as aichmophobia, belonephobia, or enetophobia but are technically incorrect because they simply denote a "fear of pins/needles" and do not refer to the medical aspect of trypanophobia. The most commonly used name is simply needle phobia. There are four types of Trypanophobia namely vaso-vagal, associative, resistive, and hyperalgesic.
13643	A parasitic disease in people and animals, Trypanosomiasis or also known as Sleeping sickness is endemic in certain regions of Sub-Saharan Africa. The region covers 36 countries and 60 million people. Presently, it is estimated that about 50,000 to 70,000 people are infected with the disease.
13644	Another type of African trypanosomiasis, the West African type is also called Gambian sleeping sickness. About 20,000 new cases are reported of both East and West African trypanosomiasis are reported annually and a few cases of the West type have been reported in the United States.
13645	TB or Disseminated tuberculosis is a contagious bacterial infection that has spread from the lungs to other organs of the body through the blood or the lymph system.
13646	The most common form of CNS tuberculosis, Tuberculosis meningitis is an infection of the meninges, or the membranes covering the brain and spinal cord. It is a very rare disorder.
13647	Tuberculosis (TB) is an infectious disease that is very common and attacks the lungs. The disease can also affect the central nervous system, the lympathic system, circulatory system, genitourinary system, bones, joints, and even the skin. About one-third of the world's population has been infected with the disease and new cases are added at a rate of one per second.
13648	Tuberous sclerosis is also known as tuberous sclerosis complex (TSC). It is a rare, multi-system genetic disease that causes benign tumors to grow in the brain and on other vital organs such as the kidneys, heart, eyes, lungs, and skin. The disease also has a predilection to tumor and the names are named after a characteristic abnormal growth in the brain, which takes the shape of a tuber root.
13649	An infection common among wild rodents, is also known as "rabbit fever," "deer fly fever," "Ohara fever," and "Francis disease." The bacterium causing the disease has several subspecies with varying degrees of virulence. Ticks and deer flies are the primary vectors of the disease but can also be spread through other arthropods. Its name was derived from Tulare County, California.
13650	Tularemia (deliberate release) is a serious infection caused by Francisella tularensis (F. tularensis) bacterium, a tiny gram-negative non-motile coccobacillus. Deer-fly fever, Francis disease, rabbit fever, and Ohara fever are other names for Tularemia (deliberate release).
13651	Tummy ache, otherwise known as stomachache, is the pain experienced by the abdomen due to reactions in the digestive system. Tummy ache is an indication of other diseases and problems that are taking place in the gastrointestinal tract.
13652	Tungiasis is a skin infestation of the Tunga penetrans flea. The flea is also known as chigoe flea, jigger, nigua, or sand flea and is found in the tropical parts of Africa, Caribean, Central and South America, and India. The disease is endemic in NIgera and Trinidad and Tobago where during the 1980s, tungiasis among children reached 40%. The disease is also rarely found outside said areas.
13653	A genetic disease characterized by polyps in the colon in additions to tumors in the brain, Turcot syndrome is the association between familial adenomatous polyposis or hereditary nonpolyposis colorectal cancer. The first reported case was done by Canadian surgeon Jacques Turcot, hence, the name. Turcot syndrome is inherited in an autosomal recessive manner with both parents carrying a Turcot gene and a 1 in 4 risk for each of their boys and girls of receiving both parental Turcot genes and suffering from the syndrome.
13654	A genetic condition, Turner syndrome is a disease in which a female does not have the usual pair of two X chromosomes.
13655	Also known as Feto-Fetal Transfusion Syndrome, Twin-to-twin transfusion syndrome is a complication with high morbidity and mortality that can affect identical twins or higher multiple pregnancies where two or more fetuses share a common placenta. Severe cases have a 60-100% mortality rate.
13656	Tylenol liver damage is a liver disease brought about by abusive consumption of the drug Tylenol, an effective analgesic and antipyretic medication used to treat headache and fever.
13657	Typhoid fever, also known as enteric fever, bilious fever or Yellow Jack, is a bacterial infection characterized by diarrhea, systemic disease, and a rash.
13658	Typhus is an infectious disease caused by louse-born bacteria that is spread by lice or fleas. Its name is derived from the Greek typhos that means smoky or lazy, which describes the state of mind of those affected with the disease. It is often mistaken for dengue fever in tropical countries. The disease has 3 types namely epidemic typhus, endemic typhus and scrub typhus.
13659	Tyrosinemia is a genetic disorder characterized by elevated blood levels of the amino acid tyrosine. Tyrosine is a building block of most proteins. There are three types of tyrosinemia namely Type I, Type II, and Type III.
13660	A genetic metabolic disorder, Galactosemia affects an individual's ability to properly metabolize the sugar galactose. In 1917, Goppert first described the disease, citing a defect in galactose metabolism that was identified by a groups led by Herman Kalckar in 1956. The disease's incidence is about 1 per 47,000 births (classic type) and is much rarer in Japan and much more common in Italy, particularly the traveler region. The disease is also very common within the Irish Traveler population. This is credited to consanguinity within a relatively small gene pool.
13661	First described in 1952, UHL anomaly is a rare congenital heart disease characterized by a partial or total loss of the myocard muscle in the right ventricle. This results in decreased output of the right side of the heart.
13662	Ulbright Hodes syndrome or Renal dysplasia-limb defects syndrome (RL syndrome) is a very rare disorder that has been described in three infants, all of whom died shortly after they were born.
13663	Duodenal ulcer is a type of peptic ulcer that develops in the first part of the small intestine.
13664	Gastric ulcer is a type of peptic ulcer that occurs in the stomach.
13665	Pressure ulcer or bedsores are the areas of damaged skin and tissue due to sustained pressure.
13666	Stomach ulcer or gastric ulcer is a type of peptic ulcer that occurs in the stomach.
13667	Ulcerative colitis or colitis ulcerosa is a type of inflammatory bowel disease that affects the large intestine and rectum. A systemic disease affects many parts of the body outside the intestine, it is often confused with irritable bowel syndrome (IBS).
13668	Ulerythema ophryogenesis is a rare genetic disorder that involves a slowly spreading redness of the eyebrows and cheeks followed by damage to the skin and loss of eyebrows. It is also classified as a type of genodermatosis.
13669	A rare congenital disease, Umbilical cord ulceration and intestinal atresia can lead to severe intrauterine hemorrhage. There have only been 15 reported cases for the disorder though newer studies are beginning to conclude that it has a higher incidence rate than has been previously reported. One study is said to have established intestinal atresia and umbilical cord ulceration a clear link after 5 cases were reported at the time of publication.
13670	Uncombable Hair Syndrome, also referred to as spun-glass hair, was discovered by French researchers in the early 1970s and was termed "cheveux incoiffables." Uncombable hair syndrome is characterized by scalp hair that has an irregular structure and that is arranged in jumbled bundles, making it impossible to comb. UHS however, is not a common phenomenon. Between 1973 and 1998, there have only been 60 reported cases of the disorder.
13671	Uniparental disomy is the situation in which two copies of a chromosome come from the same parent, instead of one copy coming from the mother and one copy coming from the father. Angelman syndrome and Prader-Willi syndrome are examples of disorders caused by uniparental disomy.
13672	An extremely rare malformation disorder, Upington disease only has one published source that claims its existence in three generations from South Africa. It is characterized by pelvic anomalies and multiple bone tumors.
13673	Upper Respiratory Tract Infections or URTI or URI refers to the sickness caused by an acute infection that usually involves the upper respiratory tracts like the nose, pharynx, larynx and the sinuses.
13674	Urachal Cancer is a rare form of bladder cancer that can occur at any site along the urachal tract. First described in 1863 by Hue and Jaequin, the most common locations of the cancer are the umbilicus and the dome of the bladder. The urachus develops inside the womb and after birth, it is no longer needed and normally closes off. Though sometimes there are still traces of it from the bladder to the umbilicus, there is often a small bit left at the bladder end.
13675	Urachal cyst is a sinus that remains from the allantois during embryogenesis.
13676	Also simply known as Urban syndrome, Urban Rogers Meyer syndrome is an extremely rare congenital disease has only been reported in two cases. The first to describe the disease was Urban et al. in 1979.
13677	It is a genetic disorder where in it is caused by a lack of one of the enzymes in the urea cycle that is responsible for getting rid of ammonia from the blood stream.
13678	A term used to loosely describe the illness accompanying kidney failure, Uremia is also known as prerenal azotemia. Urea and other waste products are usually retained in the blood in kidney failure cases.
13679	Ureter Cancer or the Transitional cell cancer of the renal pelvis or ureter is a cancer that grows in the urinary system that is either on the kidney which is responsible for collecting urine or the pelvis which empties the urine into a tube called the ureter that leads to the bladder.
13680	Urethral stricture is a medical condition where there is an abnormal narrowing of the urethra which is responsible for releasing the urine in the body.
13681	Urethral Syndrome otherwise known as the Frequency-Dysuria syndrome is a medical condition that is characterized by frequency, dysuria and suprapubic discomfort without any finding of urological abnormalities.
13682	Urethritis is an inflammation of the urethra that manifest through the painful and often difficult urination.
13683	Urge incontinence is the condition in which an individual involuntarily losses his or her urine.
13684	Uridine monophosphate synthetase deficiency is a rare metabolic disorder where deficiency of two enzymes impairs the body's ability to break down orotic acid. Build up of said acid can cause damage to the body.
13685	Kidney stones, also called renal calculi, are solid, crystal aggregations of dissolved minerals in urine. They typically form inside the kidneys or bladder. nephrolithiasis and urolithiasis refer to the presence of calculi in the kidneys and urinary tract, respectively.
13686	Urinary incontinence is the loss of bladder control which is often become embarrassing to the individuals affected by this condition where in an individual cannot control the release of urine from the bladder. Urinary incontinence severity ranges from urine secretion from simply coughing or sneezing to sudden, random episodes of strong urinary emergencies.
13687	Urinary incontinence in children is a condition whereby the child is incapable of controlling urination.
13688	Urinary retention is the opposite of urinary inconstinence or the inability of a person to empty his bladder. It's because the patient will have problem starting to urinate or completely emptying the bladder. Anyone can suffer from urinary retention but mostly men who are in their fifties.
13689	Urinary System Cancer is a the cancer that affects the urinary system that is consist of the ureter, bladder and kidneys which regulates the water and chemical balance in the body.
13690	UTI is a bacterial infection that greatly affects any part of the urinary tract. The most common kind of UTI is called cystitis which is a bladder infection and pyelonephritis which is a kidney infection.
13690	A urinary tract infection or UTI is categorized as an infection that primarily affects the urinary system. This infection is basically limited to the bladders and can be very painful an annoying. Complications may occur when the infection will spread to the kidneys. Women are known to be more at risk of urinary tract infection than men.
13691	Urinary tract neoplasm means that a tumor that develops anywhere along the urinary tract. The urinary tract involves the kidneys, urethra and ureters. The tumor may be malignant or benign.
13692	The normal color of the urine typically ranges from yellow to deep amber, which is the result of a certain pigment called urochrome. However, urine color is not always not and can be a potential signs of other underlying health conditions. There are certain food that can affect the color of the urine but unusual color should prompt the person to seek medical attention.
13693	Urine Retention otherwise known as the Ischuria is the medical condition that refers to the person's inability to urinate.
13694	Also known as Urocanic aciduria or urocanate hydratase deficiency, Urocanase deficiency is a rare disease characterized by the deficiency of the urocanase enzyme.
13695	Urogenital adysplasia syndrome or renal agenesis is a rare disorder characterized by anomalies of the kidneys, urinary tract, and/or reproductive system.
13696	The skin disorder physical urticaria (or urticaria) usually results from allergic reactions to certain substances. It is characterized by the swelling of the skin, called welts or uredo, on different parts of the body, such as the face, throat, ears, lips, and tongue. The welts, whose sizes may grow up to that of one dinner plate, commonly itch severely, burn or sting.
13697	Urticaria pigementosa is a rare disease and is the most common form of cutaneous mastocytosis.
13698	Also known as Muckle-Wells syndrome, Urticaria-deafness-amyloidosis (UDA) was first described in 1962 by Thomas James Muckle and Michael Vernon Wells. It is a rare autosomal disease, which causes sensorineural deafness, recurrent hives, and can lead to amyloidosis. MWS happens when a mutation in the CIAS1 gene leads to increased activity of the cryopyrin protein. The disorder is closely related to two other syndromes, familial cold urticaria and neonatal onset multisystem inflammatory disease.
13699	Usher syndrome is probably the most common condition that affects both hearing and vision. Usher syndrome also has three clinical types: type 1, type 2, and type 3. The most common types in the United States are type 1 and type 2. They account for approximately 90 to 95 percent of all cases of children who have Usher syndrome.
13700	Usher syndrome type 1C is a rare inherited disorder characterized by sensorineural deafness and progressive vision loss, which starts during the first decade of life. The disorder is listed as a "rare disease" by the Office of Rare Diseases (ORD) of the National Institutes of Health (NIH), which means that Usher syndrome, type 1C, or its subtype affects less than 200,000 people in the US population.
13701	Uterine cancer may point to one of numerous kinds of cancer that happen in the uterus. It includes uterine sarcomas, uterine fibroids, endometrial cancers, hydatidiform mole and cervical cancer.
13701	Uterine cancer is a most common form of carcinoma that begins in the endometrium or the lining of the uterus. Also called endometrial cancer, this type of cancer typically appears after the reproductive years, mostly in the sixth or seventh decade of life.
13702	Uterine fibroids are seen in the muscle layers of the uterus which are benign tumors. During the reproductive years it affects about 25% of white women and 50% of black women it also the most common neoplasm in females.
13702	Uterine fibroids are characterized as noncancerous growths that develop in the uterus that appear within the childbearing years. Uterine fibroids are also known as fibromyomas and are not elated with uterine cancer. Generally, these growths do not pose any real problem and would seldom require any treatment.
13703	Uterine growths, also known as endometriosis, are benign growths that come from the tissues of the uterine lining. These tissues develop into cysts on the pelvic area. When not treated, these growths can form scars and adhesions which can bind reproductive organs together.
13704	Uterine prolapse is characterized by the movement of the uterus farther into the vagina and is primarily caused by the weakening and stretching of the muscles and ligaments. This condition mostly affects menstrual women because of the uterus damage during childbearing years.
13705	Uterus didelphys is medical anomaly where the two tubes of the uterus do not join completely and develops into two separate cavities. This is also known as double uterus, which each uterus having its own cervix and a divided or double vagina. This condition has been known to be quite rare and may not even be diagnosed at times.
13706	Uveitis specifically refers to inflammation of the uvea or the middle layer of the eye. The term uvea however may also refer to any inflammatory process involving the interior of the eye. The disease is estimated to be responsible for approximately 10% of blindness in the United States.
13707	An inflammation of the middle layer of the eye, anterior uveitis includes the iris (colored part of the eye) and the ciliary body, an adjacent tissue. If it remains untreated, it can cause permanent damage and loss of vision from the development of glaucoma, cataract or retinal edema. Though it usually responds well to treatment, there is still a tendency for recurrence.
13708	Also known as PU, retinitis, Choroidoretinitis, or Choroiditis, posterior Uveitis is the inflammation of the choroids and the retinal layer leading to vision problems.
13709	A nonrandom association of birth defects, VATER syndrome or VACTERL association, is not considered a syndrome since all the defects are linked.
13710	Vagabond disease is a condition of pigmentation of the skin caused by long continued exposure, uncleanliness, and especially by scratch marks and other lesions due to the presence of body lice.
13711	Vaginal cancer is a rare form of carcinoma that affects the vagina, or the muscular tube connecting the uterus to the outer genitals. Most cases of vaginal cancer occur in the birth canal.
13711	Vagina cancer is considered to be a very rare form of cancer that affects the vagina, especially the cells that use to line the surface of the vagina or otherwise known as the birth canal. This cancer usually affects women with ages 60 and up and can spread to other parts of the body.
13712	Vaginal atrophy is characterized by the thinning as well as inflammation of the vaginal walls. This condition usually occurs after menopause, but may also develop during breast-feeding stage or at any time the estrogen production declines.
13713	Vaginal Candidiasis is the medical condition that is characterized by the infection that is caused by the fungi Candida Albicans.
13714	Vaginal discharge, also known as pelvic inflammatory disease (PID) is an inflammation of the female genital tract. It is a result of various sexually transmitted diseases such as Chlamydia and gonorrhea.
13715	Vaginal dryness is characterized by the lack of natural lubrication of the vagina, causing irritation and itchiness as well as discomfort during sexual intercourse. This is quite a common condition found in most women, especially during and after the menopausal stage.
13716	Vaginal Fistula is an abnormal fistulous tract that is between the bladder and the vagina which is usually allows the continuous involuntary discharge of the urine into the vaginal vault.
13717	The German equivalent of the word Vaginism, Vaginismus is a condition that affects a woman's ability to engage in any form of vaginal penetration, including sexual penetration, insertion of tampons, and the penetration involved in gynecological examinations. The spasm is not controlled by the vaginismic woman since the vagnismic reflex can be compared to the response of the eye shutting when an object comes towards it. The severity of the condition varies from woman to woman.
13718	Vaginitis is the swelling of the vagina, which is the female genital, that can lead to discharge, pain and itching. There are common types of vaginitis which are bacterial vaginosis, yeast infection, trichomoniasis and atrophic vaginitis.
13718	Vaginitis is characterized as the inflammation of the vagina, which can often result to discharges, as well as itching and pain. Vaginitis is usually triggered by the change in the normal balance of vaginal bacteria or caused by an infection.
13719	A very rare metabolic disorder, Valinemia is a deficiency of the enzyme valine transminase resulting in increased blood and urine levels of valine, an amino acid.
13720	Valley fever is usually caused by fungi that reside in the soil. These fungi can enter the human body in cases where in the soil is stirred like farming or construction and wind and it can be breathed in by an individual. Valley fever is a type of coccidioidomycosis or cocci infection.
13720	Valley fever is caused by fungi in the soil, which can be stirred into the air by anything that disrupts the soil such as farming, construction, and wind. A form of coccidioidomycosis or cocci infection, the fungi causing the disease can be breathed into the lungs.
13721	Van der Woude syndrome is a condition affecting the development of the face. It is known for the acronym VDWS.
13722	Van Goethem syndrome is a birth defect that is also called radiodigitofacial dysplasia.
13723	Vancomycin-resistant enterococcus (VRE) is a group of bacterial species of the genus Enterococcus, which is resistant to the antibiotic vancomycin. The aid bacteria are enteric and can be found in the digestive and urinary tracts of some humans. Even healthy people can carry VRE if they have been exposed to the bacteria. Hospitals are the most likely places whewre such contacts can occur although it is thought that a significant percentage of intensively-farmed chicken can also carry VRE.
13724	Varadi Papp is a syndrome of polydactyly of the fingers and toes, cleft lip/palate or lingual nodule, somatic and psychomotor retardation, and occasional internal abnormalities. It is also known as hyperdactyl, which is a congenital physical anomaly consisting of supernumerary fingers or toes.
13725	TORCH or TORCHES infections are a group of infections that can lead to sever fatal anomalies or even fetal loss among pregnant women. Varicella virus antenatal infection is one of the infections in this syndrome. These infections are rarely bacterial and gain access to the fetal bloodstream via the placenta or the chorionic villi. TORCH stands for Toxoplasmosis, Other agents (Varicella zoster virus and human parvovirus), Rubella, Cytomegalovirus, Herpes simplex virus/HIV, and Syphilis.
13726	One of eight herpes viruses, Varicella zoster virus (VZV) is known to infect humans and other vertebrates. The virus commonly causes chicken pox in both children and shingles and postherpetic neuralgia among adults.
13727	Varicella-zoster virus is known as a perpetrator for both herpes zoster or shingles and chicken pox, following exposure to the said virus. However, in certain cases, a patient may develop an acute neurological condition called VZV encephalitis that usually comes with some potentially severe and fatal complications.
13728	Varicocele is a medical condition where there is an enlargement of the veins in the scrotum which drains the testicles.
13729	Varicose veins looks like gnarled, enlarged veins. The veins that are usually affected are those found in the legs and feet. For other people pain and discomfort can be felt. Varicose veins can also indicate other disorders especially in the circulatory system.
13729	Varicose veins are characterized as gnarled and enlarged veins that usually develop in the legs and feet. While this condition is mostly seen as a cosmetic concern and a medically insignificant condition, in some cases it can cause serious discomfort and pain and increase the risk of other circulatory complications.
13730	An autosomal dominant porphyria, Variegate porphyria can have severe, but usually not long-lasting symptoms along with symptoms that affect the skin.
13731	Variola is a virus that causes smallpox which can be highly contagious as often a deadly disease. Based in history, smallpox have been known to have such a profound effect in the human health and has caused about 300 million deaths all over the world.
13732	Congenital absence of the vas deferens (CAVD) or congenital bilateral aplasia of vas deferens is a condition in which both vas deferens, fail to form properly prior to birth.
13733	Vascular dementia is medical umbrella term that generally describes mental impairments and disorders that affect the cognitive functioning of the brain. This is usually caused by abnormalities in the blood vessels that are responsible in feeding the brain. Blockages in the blood usually cause stroke that causes dementia.
13734	Vascular pupura is the appearance of red or purple discolorations on the skin. The small spots are called petechiae, which are less than 1cm, while the large ones are called ecchymoses, which are bigger than 1cm.
13735	A group of diseases featuring inflammation of the wall of blood vessels including veins (phlebitis), arteries, and capillaries due to leukocyte migration and resultant damage, Vasculitis is a condition where the immune system mistakenly attacks the body's own blood vessels. Vasculitides generally affect several organ systems and can cause severe disability.
13736	A condition characterized by a reaction that results in the inflammation of the blood vessels, hypersensitivity vasculitis happens when immune complexes lodge in the vessel wall, attracting polymorphonuclear leukocytes that in turn release tissue-degrading substances leading to an inflammatory process.
13737	Vasovagal Attack otherwise known as the vasovagal reaction, is medical term used to described the reflex of the involuntary system that usually results into the slow down of the heart and the dilating of the vessels which caused the lessening of the oxygen supply in the brain.
13738	There are several types of fainting but the most common is Vasovagal syncope. is the most common type of fainting. There are a number of different syncope syndromes; all which falling under the umbrella of vasovagal syncope. The central mechanism leading to loss of consciousness is the common element among these conditions. The only difference among them is the triggering factors.
13739	Vater Syndrome, sometimes called Vacterl Association, refers to the non-random association ofv ertebral anomalies, anal atresia, cardiovascular anomalies, tracheoesophageal fistula, esophageal atresia, renal and/or radial anomalies and Preaxial limb anomalies (Weaver, David and Brandt, Ira (1999). Catalog of Prenatally Diagnosed Codition, JHU Press, pp. 248). More specifically , it refers to the abnormalities in structures deduce from the embryonic mesoderm.
13740	Velocardiofacial Syndrome, otherwise known as the 22q11.2 deletion syndrome, DiGeorge Syndrome Strong Syndrome, is a disease or a condition that is characterized by the deletion of a chromosome that occurs near the middle of the chromosome at a location named or designated as q11.2 It usually one of the causes which causes hypemasality, language delays and speech sound errors (D'Antonio LL, Scherer NJ, Miller LL, Kalbfleisch JH, Bartley JA (2001). "Analysis of speech characteristics in children with velocardiofacial syndrome (VCFS) and children with phenotypic overlap without VCFS". Cleft Palate Craniofac. J. 38 (5): 455-67).
13741	Velopharyngeal incompetence is a disease which is used to describe the functionality of the velopharyngeal valve. Specifically it is the malfunctioning of the velopharyngel mechanism of a person which is responsible for directing the transmission of sound energy and air pressure in both the oral cavity and the nasal cavity.
13742	Venereal warts is more commonly known as warts in the genitals is categorized as one of the most common types of sexually transmitted diseases. As its name suggests, this disease primarily affects the moist tissues found in the genitals. While these warts can be treated with medications and surgery, it poses a health risk that should be treated seriously.
13743	Venous thrombosis is the inflammation of the capillaries due to thrombosis. In this state blood clots from in a vein near the skin's surface, and this leads to inflammation of the affected veins. Persons with varicose veins are at high risk for this condition. Venous thrombosis usually triggers older people with poor blood circulation due to a week heart.
13744	Idiopathic Ventricular Fibrillation or V-fiB or VF, for brevity, is a term which is most frequently used to describe the occurrence of ventricular fibrillation in the intact heart (Aliot, E., Clement, J., Prystowsky, E. (2008). Fighting Sudden Cardiac Death: A World Wide Challenge, Blackwell Publishing, p.240). It is characterized by the uncoordinated contraction of the cardiac muscle of the ventricles located in the heart. It usually causes cessation of blood circulation which eventually leads to death.
13745	Ventricular flutter (VFI) is a term used to describe an abnormally rapid heart rate. In this condition the heart beats up to more than 250 beats per minute. VFI can be a transitional stage between to other ventricular condition, ventricular tachycardia and ventricular fibrillation.
13746	Ventricular septal defect or VSD for brevity is a defect in the wall dividing the left and right ventricles of the heart called the ventricular septum which consists of an inferior muscular and superior membranous portion which is close to the atrioventricular node, It is the most common congenital heart defects in adults and older children (Hoffman JI, Kaplan S. (2002) The Incidence of congenital heart disease, p 39).
13747	Vernal keratoconjunctivitis is the recurrent, bilateral, interstitial inflammation of the conjunctive that occurs more frequently in warm or dry climates.
13748	Veruccas, also known as plantar warts, skin lesions that grow on the soles of the feet. These warts are caused by the human papilloma virus (HPV), but they are not harmful to the body's internal organs.
13749	Vesicoureteral Reflux or VUR for brevity is the medical term that is characterized by the retrograde flow of the urine from the bladder to the kidneys.
13750	Vestibular Neuronitis sometimes referred to as the vestibular neuropathy, is a medical condition characterized by an acute and sustained dysfunctioning of the peripheral vestibular system accompanied by nausea and vertigo.
13751	Vibrio is a gram-negative bacteria, usually a curved rod shape, is most often associated with gastroenteritis and septicemia. It usually thrive in living animals living in salt walter including prawns and crabs.
13752	Vibrio Parahaemolyticus is a gram-negative bacteria that is usually found in brackish salt water, commonly associated with the gastrointestinal illnesses.
13753	Vibrio Vulnificus is a gram negative bacteria, most commonly rod shaped, belongs to the genus vibrio which usually present in estuaries and coastal areas and is commonly associated with the vibrio cholera which causes cholera.
13754	Vincent's disease is a medical condition that is usually characterized by the presence of ulcerating gingivitis.
13755	Vincent's stomatitis is more commonly known as Trench mouth, which has been known to be quite prevalent among soldiers who were are stuck during the World War I in the trenches. This is caused by a severe form of gingitivis caused by poor living conditions and poor nutrition.
13756	Violent vomiting is a form of regurgitation in which one vomits in an abnormal, violent manner. This condition is brought about by gastrointestinal problems and infections that cause the body to commit chronic regurgitations. This is a common symptom among liver, kidney, pulmonary and digestive malignancies.
13757	VIPoma, otherwise known as the Verner Morrison Syndrome (Verner, J. V., and Morrison, A. B. (1958) Islet cell tumor and a syndrome of refractory watery diarrhea and hypokalemia. Am J Med 1958; 374) or Vasoactive Intestinal Polypeptide-oma, is a rare functional tumour of the pancreas which is characterized by the over production or producing excess amounts of VIP, which results in sever watery diarrhea, hypokalaemia and hypochlothydria (Buther, G. (2003) Gastroenterology: An Illustrated Colour Text, p. 60).
13758	Viral Disentery is a medical condition that is characterized by the inflammation of the lining of the large intestine caused by a viral infection. It is a contagious disease.
13759	Viral exanthem is also called non-specific viral rash. This is a type rash which is caused by infection due to virus. There are, however, many viruse that causes similar rashes making it difficult to distinguish it from another.
13760	Viral gastroenteritis is an infection of the intestine characterize by watery diarrhea, cramps in the abdomen, vomiting or nausea, and sometimes fever. It is also often referred to as stomach flu. It usually happens if an individual have ingested a contaminated water or food.
13760	Viral gastroenteritis is an infection of the intestine characterize by watery diarrhea, cramps in the abdomen, vomiting or nausea, and sometimes fever. It is also often referred to as stomach flu. It usually happens if an individual have ingested a contaminated water or food.
13760	Viral Gastroenteritis is the medical term that is used to refer to an intestinal infection that is usually caused by virus that is found on contaminated food and water.
13761	Viral haemorrhagic fevers is actually categorized as a group of illnesses that are primary caused by a number of highly distinct virus families that includes filoviruses, arenaviruses, , flaviviruses and bunyaviruses. Some of these virus may cause some relatively mild illnesses, while others can result to life-threatening diseases.
13762	Viral hemorrhagic fever, VHF for brevity, is a group of illnesses that are caused by a taxonomically diverse group of simple RNA viruses with lipid envelopes (Gravenstein, N., Lobato, E., Kirby, R. (2007) Complications in Anesthesiology, p.446). It is an illness which is commonly detected or seen in both human and animals.
13763	Viral Hepatitis is the medical condition that is characterized by the inflammation of the liver caused by viruses such as the cytomegalovirus.
13764	Viral Meningitis is the medical condition whereby there is an inflammation of the meninges or the protective membranes covering the brain and the spinal cord caused by viruses.
13765	Vision problems are anomalies that affect normal eye function. These disturbances are caused by a variety of factors ranging from genetic defects to environmental exposure. Among the main forms of vision problems are cataracts, blurry vision, refractive errors and swelling corneal blood vessels, as well as partial or total blindness. Vision problems can also be an effect of severe conditions such as eye cancers and other malignant growths. Vision problems can be detected by physical eye examinations and be treated with prescription glasses, contact lenses or eye surgery to restore normal vision.
13766	In developing countries Vitamin A deficiency is common and often seen in developed countries. This deficiency contributes to blindness because it can make the cornea very dry and destroying the retina and cornea. Pregnant women are at risk because there is a high possibility that they acquire this deficiency.
13766	Vitamin A Deficiency is the medical condition that refers to the person's inability to take the required or the minimum level of Vitamin A which helps the body to fight infections. itamin A deficiency also diminishes the ability to fight infections. In countries where children are not immunized, infectious disease like measles have relatively higher fatality rates. As elucidated by Dr. Alfred Sommer, even mild, subclinical deficiency can also be a problem, as it may increase children's risk of developing respiratory and diarrheal infections, decrease growth rate, slow bone development, and decrease likelihood of survival from serious illness.
13767	Vitamin A overdose is the medical condition whereby there is an excessive Vitamin A consumption.
13768	Vitamin B 6 Deficiency is a deficiency due to the poor absorption of nutrients particularly Vitamin B6 in the gastrointestinal tracts as in the case of chronic diarrhea and alcoholism or due to intake of isoniazid, hydrolazine and penicillamine
13769	Vitamin B Deficiency is a medical condition whereby the person fail to consume the minimum requirement that a body need for vitamin B. It can lead to a lot of medical condition among which are abnormal neurologic and psychiatric symptoms.
13770	Vitamin B12 deficiency is the deficiency which usually result from the failure of the digestive tract to absorb Vitamin B12 or Cobalomin which is necessary for making red blood cells and which is responsible for keeping the nervous system functioning. It is said that this deficiency may cause irreversible damage to the person's nerve (Insel, P., Turner, E., Ross, D. (2005). Discovering Nutrition, Jones and Bartlett Publishers, p. 353).
13771	Vitamin C deficiency otherwise known as scurvy, is the medical condition whereby there is less intake of Vitamin C that the body needs for protection against infections.
13772	Vitamin D Deficiency is the medical condition whereby there is inadequate intake of vitamin D accompanied with the person's less exposure to sunlight.
13773	Vitamin D Overdose is the medical condition where there is an excessive ingestion of Vitamin D which may cause abnormal calcium metabolism.
13774	Vitamin D Resistant Rickets is the clinical condition characterized by the person's prevalent body resistance to the vitamin D treatment generally used in deficiency rickets.
13775	If a human body lacks certain vitamins, the person develops anemia, in which case the healthy blood red cells are abnormally low. This is called the vitamin deficiency anemia that causes lack of oxygen in the body since the red blood cells are responsible for carrying oxygen to the rest of the body.
13776	It is a condition whereby the person is unable to absorb dietary fat due to an inability to secrete bile. It is characterized by neurological problems associated with nerve degeneration in hands and feet (Institute of medicine, Food and Nutrition Board. (2000) Dietary Reference intakes: Vitamin C, Vitamin E, Selenium and Carotenoids, National Academy Press, Washington D.C).
13777	Familial Isolated Vitamin E Deficiency which is synonymous to Ataxia with Vitamin E Deficiency or to isolated Vitamin E Deficiency is a rare and autosomal recessive neurodegenrative disease. It is an inherited neurodegenerative disorder that is often characterized by the inability to coordinate voluntary movements and disease of the peripheral nervous system. It is a progressive disorder.
13778	Vitamin E Overdose is the medical condition characterized by too much consumption of vitamin E supplements.
13779	Vitamin K Deficiency is a medical condition where there is not enough consumption of Vitamin K which is an essential lipid-soluble vitamin that usually plays a vital role in the production of the coagulation of proteins.
13780	Vitiligo is a rare skin condition characterized by the loss by color pigmentation of the areas of skin resulting to an irregular white patching. It is associated with systematic diseases like the Pernicous anemia, hyperthyroidism and Addison's disease.
13781	Vogt-Koyanagi-Harada syndrome or Uveodematologic Syndrome or just VKH for brevity, is an immune-mediated disease. It is a rare condition which may affect both dogs and human and involves melanocyte-containing organ, which is characterized by the inflammation of the inside of the eye or the uveitus, occurrence of poliosis or the whitening of the hair, vitiligo or the loss of the pigmentation of the skin and even meningitis. The mechanism of the disease is said to be the T helper cell mediated autoimmune attack of melanocytes in the skin and uvea and in the central nervous system and inner ear of human (Sigle K, McLellan G, Haynes J, Myers R, Betts D (2006). "Unilateral uveitis in a dog with uveodermatologic syndrome". J Am Vet Med Assoc 228 (4): 543-8).
13782	Very long-chain acyl-coenzyme A dehydrogenase deficiency or VLCAD for brevity is a disorder of the fatty acid oxidation disorder that hinders the normal conversion of certain fats to energy by the body especially during period without food intake.
13783	Vocal cord paralysis is a medical condition that primarily affects the person's ability to produce a sound and can be quite life-threatening since it affects the way you breathe. The paralysis usually occurs after a throat or neck surgery. Cancer of the thyroid, and lung tumors may also cause vocal cord paralysis.
13784	Glycogen storage disease type I otherwise known as the Von Gierke's disease, is a genetic disease that is said to be a most common glycogen storage disease. It impairs the person's ability of the liver to produce free glucose from glycogen and from gluconeogenesis.
13785	Von Hippel-Lindau disease or VHL for brevity is a rare genetic condition which usually involves the unusual and abnormal growth of tumors in different parts of the body which is usually rich in blood supply.
13786	Von Recklinghausen Disease otherwise known as the Neurofibromatosis type I (NF-1) is an autosomal dominant disease characterized by pigmented skin lesions, skin tumors that develop along the peripheral nerves, multiple spiral and cranial nerve tumors and associated gliomas and intracranial meningiomas (Bruce Ostlertt, et al. (2003) Disease of the Eye and Ski n: A Color Atlas, Lippincott, Williams and Wilkins, p.95).
13787	Von Willebrand Disease or VWD for brevity, is a common hereditary bleeding disorder. It is a coagulation abnormality which can be acquired as a result of medical conditions.
13788	Voyeurism is a kind of deviant behavior in which a person fulfills his sexual desires by watching a sexual encounter without necessarily engaging in it. This behavior also involves the acquisition of items used to satisfy one's sexual fantasies, such as female underwear. It is classified as a paraphilia under the code 302.82 under the Diagnostic and Statistic Manual-IV.
13789	Vulvar cancer pertains to a rare carcinoma affecting the vulva, the outer part of the female genitalia. It usually occurs in women aged 55-85, although it may sometimes affect females under 40 years old.
13790	Vulva is a medical condition that is characterized by the inflammation of th vulva of a woman.
13791	Vulvodynia is a medical condition which refers to the disorder which causes vulvar pain and discomfort.
13792	Vulvovaginitis is the infection of the vulva which may be accompanied with the inflammation of the vaginal mucosa.
13793	Waardenburg syndrome is a medical condition characterized by differing degrees of deafness, minor defects in structures which arises from the neural chest and anomalies in skin pigmentation. It is associated with various congenital disorders such as defects in the intestine and spine, elevated scapula and the cleft lip palate.
13794	Waardenburg Syndrome Pierpoint is one of the variation in the name used to refer to the Waardenburg Syndrome or the Klein-Waardenburg syndrome, Van der Hoeve-Halbertsma-Waardenburg syndrome, Mende's syndrome II, Ptosis-Epicanthus syndrome,Van der Hoeve-Waardenburg-Klein syndrome, Van der Hoeve-Halbertsma-Gualdi syndrome, or the Vogt's syndrome, is an unusual disorder of the gene where it is characterized by moderate to severe impairment in the sense of hearing, defects or abnormalities which usually due from the neutral crest and anomalies in the pigmentation of the skin. It is first defined in 1951 by a Dutch Opthalmologist Petrus Johannes Waardenburg (Waardenburg PJ (1951) "A new syndrome combining developmental anomalies of the eyelids, eyebrows and nose root with pigmentary defects of the iris and head hair and with congenital deafness". Am J Hum Genet 1951; 3: 195-253).
13795	Waardenburg Syndrome type 1 is the most common type of Waardenburg Syndrome that is also is also characterized by varying degree of deafness, abnormality in the structure arising from the neutral crest and anomalies in pigmentation. The genetic variation involved in this type of syndrome is the paired box 3 or the PAX3 gene which is placed on 2q35. It symptoms include hypertelorism or distinctive wide-set eyes as a result of a prominent and broad nasal root or the dystopia canthorum. The type 1 of Waardenburg Syndrome usually inherited as an autosomal dominant pattern or where a copy of the altered gene is enough to cause the disorder. No treatment is discovered for the treatment of this type of Waardenburg Syndrome.
13796	Waardenburg Syndrome type 2 otherwise known as the WS2 is also one of the most common type of Waardenburg Syndrome that is characterized by deafness and abnormality in the structure which usually occur from the neutral crest. It was first identified in 1971 and used to describe a situation where the dystopia canthorum was not present (Arias S (1971). "Genetic heterogeneity in the Waardenburg syndrome". Birth Defects Orig. Artic. Ser. 07 (4): 87-101). Waardenburg Syndrome 2 has a sub-classification namely WS2A and WS2B, which are based on the causative gene involved. Its' symptoms includes moderate to profound hearing impairment. WS2 appears to be inherited as an autosomal recessive pattern where in there must be two copies of the altered gene for a person to be affected. There is no treatment for this type of Waardenburg Syndrome.
13797	Waardenburg Syndrome type 2 or WS2A for brevity, is a subtype of Waardenburg Syndrome 2 where the variation in the gene involves the MITF or the microphthalmia-associated transcription factor located at the 3p14.1-p12.3. It is also manifest by hearing impairment. It is also said to be an autosomal recessive inasmuch as it need two copies of altered gene to make a person affected with the disorder.
13798	Waardenburg Syndrome type 2B or WS2B for brevity, is a subtype of Waardenburg Syndrome 2 where the gene involved is the WS2B located at the 1p21-p13.3. Its symptoms also includes moderate to severe lost of hearing. Type 2B of Waardenburg Syndrome is usually inherited as an autosomal recessive pattern where two copies of the altered gene is needed in order that a person may be said to be affected with the disorder.
13799	Waardenburg Syndrome type 3 or WS3 for brevity, or the Klein-Waardenburg syndrome is a rare type of Waardenburg Syndrome where the gene involved is the paired box gene 3 or the PAX3 gene that is located at the 2q35. Aside from the common symptoms of the Waardenburg syndrome, it is most common to person affected with the Waardenburg Syndrome type 3 or WS3 to have unusual patches of white pigmentation on the skin. It is usually inherited as an autosomal dominant pattern where only one copy of the damaged or altered gene is needed in order to make the person affected with the disorder. Usually a person affected with this type of disorder has one parent affected with the condition.
13800	Waardenburg Syndrome type 4 or WS4 for brevity or the Waardenberg-Hirschsprung disease, or the Waardenburg-Shah syndrome, is a rare type of Waardenburg Syndrome where the gene affected is the EDNRB or the endothelin-B receptor, the EDN3 or the its ligand or the endothelin-3 and the SOX10 or the SRY-related HMG-box gene 10 that is usually located at the 22q13, 20q13.2-q13.3, 22q13 respectively. Its symptoms includes neurologic manifestations. Waardenburg Syndrome 4 is inherited as an autosomal recessive pattern whereby two copies of the altered gene is needed in order to cause the disorder. Usually, the parents of a person with this autosomal recessive disorder is not affected but is usually has one copy of the altered gene.
13801	Wagner's Disease is rare familial eye disease or disorder of the connective tissue in the eye that eventually causes blindness. It is frequently confused with the Sticler's syndrome but just lacks the feature of high incidence of retinal detachments.
13802	Wagner-Stickler Syndrome or Srickler Syndrome or David-Stickler syndrome, is a genetic disorder which primarily affect the connective tissue particularly the collagen. It is characterized by distinctive facial appearance, eye abnormalities and loss of hearing and problems in the joint areas.
13803	WAGR syndrome otherwise known as the WAGR complex, Wilms tumor-aniridia syndrome, aniridia-Wilms tumor syndrome, is a genetic disorder which affect children and made them to developed Wilms tumor, Aniridi, Genitourinary disorders and mental retardation. (Fischbach BV, Trout KL, Lewis J, Luis CA, Sika M (2005). "WAGR syndrome: a clinical review of 54 cases". Pediatrics 116 (4): 984-8).
13804	WaldenstrÃ·m macroglobulinemia , WM for brevity, is a type cancer disease which involves the lymphocytes or the subtype of white blood cells. It is usually a type of lymphoproliferative disease, and is often said to share the same characteristics with the non-Hodgkin Lymphomas ( Cheson BD (2006). "Chronic Lymphoid Leukemias and Plasma Cell Disorders", in Dale DD, Federman DD: ACP Medicine. New York, NY: WebMD Professional Publishing).
13805	Wallerian Degeneration or Anterograde degeneration is a medical condition where there is a cutting or crushing of the nerve fiber after an injury or when there is part distal to the injury as in the case of a separation of the axon from the neuron's cell nucleus (Trauma and Wallerian Degeneration, University of California, San Francisco).
13806	Wallis Zieff Goldblatt syndrome otherwise known as the cleidorhizomelic syndrome is a medical condition which can be described as an inherited skeletal disorders which is manifest mainly through the rhizomelic short stature and defects in the lateral clavicular of the person affected (Wallis C, Zieff S, Goldblatt J (1988). "Newly recognized autosomal dominant syndrome of rhizomelic shortness with clavicular defect". Am J Med Genet 31 (4): 881-5).
13807	Wandering spleen otherwise known as the Pelvic spleen is a rare medical disease that is often linked to the loss or the weakening of the ligaments that help hold the spleen.
13808	Warkany Syndrome or other wise known as the Trisomy 8 is an aberration in the chromosome that causes severe effects on the fetus. It is often observed in person with chronic myeloid leukaemia which may be a result of instability of the karyotype which is probably due to bcr:abl fusion gene. The Warkany Syndrome is discovered by Joseph Warkany.
13809	Warts are small, rough tumor that is typically located on the hands and feet and can resemble a cauliflower or a solid blister.
13810	Water on the knee is the common term used to describe the accumulation of fluid around and in the knee joint. This can be a result of a trauma, injury due to overuse and other medical conditions.
13811	Water intoxication is also referred to as hyperhydration or simply water poisoning. It is the potential disturbance of the brain function where in normal balance of electrolytes is forced outside of safe limits by water. It is also the extreme retention of water with sodium reduction.
13812	Waterhouse-Friderichsen syndrome, WFS for brevity is usually bilateral and massive, hemorrhage into the adrenal glands caused by fulminant meningococcemia (Kumar V, Abbas A, Fausto N (2005). Robins and Coltran: Pathological Basis of Disease, 7th, Elsevier, pp. 1214-5)
13813	Watermelon Stomach or the Gastric antral vascular ectasia, GAVE for brevity, is a condition where there is improper function especially in the antrum or the last part of the stomach. It is a rare condition which is cause by the chronic gastrointestinal bleeding or iron deficiency anemia.
13814	Weaver Syndrome otherwise known as the Weaver-Williams syndrome, is a congenital disorder which is usually linked to the unusual and rapid growth which may formally begin during the prenatal period. Its manifestation includes an unusual facial appearance and unusual skeletal features. It is a syndrome associated with the so called NSD1 (Douglas J, Hanks S, Temple IK, et al (2003). "NSD1 mutations are the major cause of Sotos syndrome and occur in some cases of Weaver syndrome but are rare in other overgrowth phenotypes". Am. J. Hum. Genet. 72 (1)). associated with rapid growth beginning in the prenatal period, a characteristic facial appearance and certain skeletal features. The first syndrome was first described in 1974 by Weaver (Weaver DD, Graham CB, Thomas IT, Smith DW (1974). "A new overgrowth syndrome with accelerated skeletal maturation, unusual facies, and camptodactyly". J. Pediatr. 84 (4): 547-52).
13815	Weber Sturge Dimitri Syndrome otherwise known as the encephalotrigeminal angiomatosis is a rare congenital neurological and skin disorder. It is a phakomatoses and usually associated with port-wine stains on the face, glaucoma, seizures, ipsilateral leptomeningeal angioma and mental retardation.
13816	Weber Christian Disease or otherwise known as the idiopathic lobular panniculitis is a disorder affecting the skin whereby there is a recurring inflammation of the fat layer of the skin.
13817	Wegener's granulomatosis is a form of the vasculitis disorder that primarily affects the lungs, kidneys and other organs. Because it mainly affect the organs, it requires a long term immune suppression (Seo P, Stone JH. The antineutrophil cytoplasmic antibody-associated vasculitides. Am J Med 2004;117:39-50).
13818	Weil Syndrome, otherwise known as the Leptospirosis or the canicola fever, canefield fever, nanukayami fever or the 7-day fever among other names, is a bacterial zoonotic disease which affects both human and animals like mammals, reptile, amphibians and birds. It is an infection that is commonly transmitted to human through allowing fresh water that is contaminated with animal urine to came in contact with the broken skin. It was first observed in 1907 from a post mortem renal tissue slice (Stimson AM (1907). "Note on an organism found in yellow-fever tissue." Public Health Reports 22:541).
13819	Weil's Disease is more commonly known as leptospirosis, which is a term used to identify certain forms of diseases that are caused by microorganisms of the genus Leptospira. These viruses can usually contracted from urine of rats and other farm animals, most commonly found in cave environment in mud and water.
13819	Weil's disease is a potentially fatal infection caused by an organism known as Leptospira ictero-haemorrhagiae that most rats carry and excrete in their urine.
13820	Weissenbacher Zweymuller Syndrome is a genetic disorder where there is abnormalities in the skeletal system of the person.
13821	Werdnigg-Hoffman Disease otherwise known as the Sever Infantile Spinal Muscular Atropy or simply Spinal Muscular Atropy Type I is an sutosomal recessive condition that presents either neonatally as floppy baby or with progressive weakness and wating within the first year of life owing to widespread lower motor neuron degeneration (Souhami, R. and Maxham,J. (2002) Textbook on Medicine, p 1391).
13822	Werner's Syndrome otherwise known as the Adult premature aging syndrome or the adult progeria, is a rare genetic disorder which can be inherited as an autosomal recessive trait. Its signs and symptoms of the disorder may only be manifest usually during the third and fourth decade of life.
13823	Wernicke's encephalopathy is a medical condition that is caused thiamine or vitamin B-1 deficiency.
13824	Wernickle-Korsakoff syndrome is a condition characterized by loss of memory and confusion. This is caused by a dysfunction in the brain due to lack of sufficient B vitamins.
13825	West Nile encephalitis is a viral infection that affects the brain. This disease causes great damages to the central nervous system and can lead to paralysis or even death.
13826	West Nile virus is an RNA virus which is also a member of the Flaviviridae family that is transmitted through culicine mosquitoes which usually bite birds and infect horses and humans (Guharoy R. Noviasky JA, et al. (2004) West Nile Virus Infection, AmJ Health Syst. Pharm. Jun 15:61 (12).
13827	West Syndrome also known as the "Infantile Spasms" is a rare form of epilepsy in infants. The syndrome is related to the age of the person and usually occur in the 3rd and 12th month especially the 5th month of the infant.
13828	Western equine encephalitis or WEE is a viral disease which is caused by western equine encephalitis virus which is an arbovirus that is transmitted by mosquitoes of the genre Culex and Culiseta (Ryan KJ; Ray CG (editors) (2004). Sherris Medical Microbiology, 4th ed., McGraw Hill).
13829	Westphall disease otherwise known as the Hypokalemic periodic paralysis is a rare channelopathy where there is weakness in the muscle and even cause paralysis accompanying a fall in the level of potassium in the blood. It often begins in adolescence and is usually triggered of strenuous exercise followed by rest, high carbohydrate meals and sudden changes in the temperature.
13830	Wet lung syndrome, also known as Adult Respiratory Distress Syndrome (ARDS), is an acute obstruction of the lungs. Inflammation of the lungs occurs when the air passages become to narrow for the oxygen to enter. This syndrome is common among people exposed to chemicals such as ammonia and chlorine for a long period of time. The condition is characterized by rales and cough. It may also lead to more severe respiratory problems and can be life-threatening.
13831	Wheat is identified as one of the most common allergy-causing foods that mostly affect children. The allergic reactions typically occurs a few minutes after eating the food products that contains wheat, with symptoms ranging from mild to severe and possibly life-threatening reactions.
13832	Wheat Hypersensitivity otherwise known as the Wheat allergy is a kind of food allergy which involves IgE and mast cell response.
13833	Whiplash usually happens during rear-end car collisions which results to a neck injury which is common in this kind of situations.
13833	Whiplash is characterized as one of the most common neck injury that is usually a result of a rear-end collisions on automobile when the head suddenly jerks back and forward. This extreme motion can cause the ligaments and the muscles to move out of its range.
13834	Whipple disease is a systematic and rare disease which is often described as a gastrointestinal disorder that causes mal-absorption and affect other part of the including the heart, lungs, brain and eyes.
13835	Whipworm is a roundworm that looks like a whips with wider handles, that affects the human large intestine.
13836	White Sponge Nevus otherwise known as the Cannon's Disease or Hereditary leukokeratosis of mucosa which follow a hereditary pattern as an autosomal dominant trait. It usually occur during childhood or adulthood of the person.
13837	Whiteheads is caused by the buildup of sebum tat blocks the oil ducts. This is a quite common skin problem that typically affects the face. While this condition does not necessary warrant an immediate medical attention, it can be quite unsightly.
13838	Whitemore disease, also known as melioidosis, is a contagious illness similar to glanders disease. It is caused by the bacterium Burkhoideria pseudomallei. This disease is endemic in Southeast Asia, South America and some parts of Australia.
13839	Whitlow otherwise known as the Herpetic whitlow, is a medical condition that is usually characterized by a severe painful infection of the hand which usually involves one or more fingers that is most often affects the terminal phalanx.
13840	Whooping cough is medically known as pertussis, which is characterized as a highly contagious infection of the respiratory tract. While whooping cough may initially resemble an ordinary cold, it may eventually turn more serious, especially among infants.
13841	Whooping Cough otherwise known as the Pertussis is a higly contagious diseased that is said to be caused by a bacteria named Bordetella Pertussis. The disease is often described as the whooping which is generally on high-pitched that usually occur in the case of infected babies and children only (Finger H, von Koenig CHW (1996). Bordetella-Clinical Manifestations. In:Barron's Medical Microbiology (Barron S et al. Eds.) 4th., Univ of Texas Medical Branch).
13842	Von Willebrand disease or VWD for brevity, is an inherited bleeding disorder which affects the body's ability to clot open wounds which causes heavy and continuous bleeding.
13843	Acquired Willebrand disease otherwise known as the Von Willebrand disease is the a hereditary coagulation abnormality which arises from a quantitative or qualitative deficiency of von Willebrand factor which is a multimeric protein that is usually required for platelet adhesion.
13844	Williams syndrome otherwise known as the Williams-Beuren syndrome is a genetic disorder that is characterized by a an unusual "elfin" facial appearance with a low nasal bridge a different and unusual cheerful demeanor and unpredictable negative outbursts. It is first described by Dr. J.C.P Williams of New Zealand (Dobbs, David. The Gregarious Brain, New York Times, July 8, 2007, Retrieved on September 25, 2007.)
13845	Wilms tumor-aniridia syndrome otherwise known as the WAGR complex, aniridia-Wilms tumor syndrome, is a genetic disorder which affect children and made them to developed Wilms tumor, Aniridi, Genitourinary disorders and mental retardation. (Fischbach BV, Trout KL, Lewis J, Luis CA, Sika M (2005). "WAGR syndrome: a clinical review of 54 cases". Pediatrics 116 (4): 984-8).
13846	Wilms' tumor otherwise known as the nephroblastoma, is a tumor which often leads to cancer of the kidneys that more frequently occurs in children. It is frequently detected to children between the ages of two and three and often manifests as a lump in the abdomen.
13847	Wilson's disease or hepatolenticular degeneration is said to be an autosomal recessive genetic disorder wherein there is accumulation of copper in the tissues and manifest itself with neurilogical symptoms and liver disease.
13848	Winged scapula is a medical condition in which the border of a person's shoulder blade is placed in a lateral posterior position (outward-backward). The back then appears to be wing-like because of the deformed protrusion of the scapula.
13849	Winter vomiting disease is a contagious illness caused by the Norwalk virus. It is common in Englands, Sweden and Norway.
13850	Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome otherwise known as the eczema-thrombocytopenia-immunodeficiency syndrome (Aldrich RA, Steinberg AG, Campbell DC (1954). "Pedigree demonstrating a sex-linked recessive condition characterized by draining ears, eczematoid dermatitis and bloody diarrhea". Pediatrics 13 (2): 133-9) is a x-linked recessive disease that is characterized by eczema, thrombocytopenia of low platelet counts, immune deficiency and blood in diarrhea.
13851	Wolf-Hirschhorn syndrome otherwise known as the deletion 4p and 4p- syndrome was first studied in 1961 by H. Cooper and U. Wolf (Cooper H., Hirschhhorn K.(1961). Apparent deletion of short arms of one Chromosome (4 or 5) in a child with Defects of Midline Fusion. Mammalian Chrom Nwsl.4:14) It is said to be a phenotype resulting from a deletion of chromosomal material of the short arm of the 4th chromosome.
13852	Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome, WPW for brevity is a medical condition characterized by the pre-excitation of the heart ventricles resulting from the bundle of kent or the abnormal accessory pathway.
13853	Wolfram syndrome otherwise known as the DIDMOAD which is the acronym for the Diabetes Insipidus, Diabetes Mellitus, Optic Atrophy, and Deafness, generally a genetic disorder classified as a neurodegenerative disease which affects the brain and the central nervous system. It was first describe in 1938 by Dr. Don J. Wolfram, M.D. (Wolfram, D. J.; Wagener, H. P: Diabetes mellitus and simple optic atrophy among siblings: report of four cases. Mayo Clin. Proc. 13: 715-718, 1938).
13854	Wolman disease otherwise known as the Wolman's syndrome or acid lipase deficiency is a rare disorder that is a neonates and usually results to death of the infant within the first year of life. It was first observed in 1956 by Moshe Wolman, an Israeli neuropathologist (A. Abramov, S. Schorr and M. Wolman, Generalized xanthomatosis with calcified adrenals, Am J Dis Child 91 (1956), pp. 282-286).
13855	Womb cancer, or cancer of the uterus, is a slow-growing cancer that may affect a woman's ability to get pregnant. It is easily detected and can be treated immediately once diagnosed.
13856	Woodhouse-Sakati syndrome is an unusual autosomal recessive genetic disorder which results to the malformation and deficiencies affecting the endocrine system (Woodhouse NJ, Sakati NA (1983). "A syndrome of hypogonadism, alopecia, diabetes mellitus, mental retardation, deafness, and ECG abnormalities". J. Med. Genet. 20 (3): 216-9).
13857	Woolly hair syndrome is a condition that is characterized by frizzy and wiry hair that looks like a wool. It affects some percentage of Caucasian and Asian,
13858	Worms are parasites that may thrive inside the human gastrointestinal tract. In this condition worms eat up the nutrients of their host causing weakness and malnutrition and sometimes, death.
13859	Worms in children are an infestation of certain worms on children's gastrointestinal tract. These worms can be ingested through eating contaminated food as well as playing games on the ground with only bare feet.
13860	Worster-Drought syndrome otherwise known as the congenital suprabulbar paresis, is a kind of cerebral palsy which primarily affects the bulbar muscles which in turn, causes problems with the mouth and tongue including impairment in swallowing.
13861	Wrinkles are natural signs of aging and are largely considered a cosmetic problem and not a serious medical condition. As a person ages, the skin gradually loses its elasticity, creating fine lines and creases on the skin. There are a number of medications and skin resurfacing techniques available today to help people retain their youthful skin.
13862	Writer's cramp otherwise known as the mogigraphia is the cramping or the spasm of the hands and the fingers. It is a focal dystonia of the hand.
13863	X-linked adrenal hypoplasia congenita genetic disorder where it involves the endocrine tissues particularly the adrenal glands. It is usually manifests by adrenal insufficiency where there is reduction of the adrenal gland function which causes incomplete development of the adrenal cortex or the outer layer of the gland. It usually affects male thus, the symptoms includes manifestation of hypogonadotropic hypogonadism which are shown through the less and even lack of sex hormones which causes undeveloped reproductive tissues and cyptorchidism or the undescended testicles and infertility. In women, this disorder is rare but symptoms includes insufficiency of sex hormones and amenorrhea or lack of mentruation. It is said to be caused by the mutation and deletion of the NRRoB1 located at the X chromosome Xp21.3-p21.3 which are responsible for giving DAX1 or the transcription factor protein which controls the activity of certain genes.
13864	X-linked agammaglobulinemia otherwise known as X-linked hypogammaglobulinemia, or the XLA, Bruton type agammaglobulinemia is a medical condition that is characterized by the disorder in the X-link genes that results into the body's ability to fight infection.
13865	6.X-linked alpha thalassemia mental retardation syndrome or ATR-X for brevity is a disorder that is caused by the mutation of the ATR X gene which affects the 3D structure of the chromatin located in the cell nucleus. It is manifest through severe learning difficulties, an unusual facial appearance, unusual genitalia and alpha thalassemia.
13866	X-linked dominant is a mode of inheritance where a gene on the X-chromosome is dominant. It is a mode that is less common to the X-linked recessive and unlike males, females are said to be more affected than males inasmuch as females have two x Chromosomes which may be a potential carrier of the abnormal gene. Theory suggests that a woman with a disorder that is passed through a X-link dominant mode has a 50% chance of affecting the child while the daughter of a man with a disorder characterized by an X-linked dominant will inherit the said condition. However, the chance of passing the disorder that is said to be an X-linked disorder varies between men and women.
13867	X-linked ichthyosis is a heriditary skin condition which is due to the deficiency of the steroid sulfatase. During prenatal, the X-linked ichthyosis is a condition that affects the placental oestrogen production inasmuch as the steroids from the male fetus are not fully utilize because of the difficulty in the removal of the sulfate group. People with this kind of disorder has low estriol levels and results in to the inability to go into spontaneous labor.
13868	X-linked mental retardation and macroorchidism otherwise known as the Fragile X syndrome,Fragile Site, Folic Acid Type, Rare, Fra(X)(Q27.3), the Marker Syndrome or the Martin Bell Syndrome, a mental retardation associated with the to x-link retardation. Its incidence includes 1 in 3600 males and 1 in 4,000-6,000 females (Crawford, D.C.; Acuna, J.M. & Sherman, S.L. (2001) "FMR1 and the Fragile X syndrome: Human genome epidemiology review". Genet Med 3: 359-371)
13869	X-linked severe combined immunodeficiency otherwise known as the common gamma chain is a sub type of the Severe combined immunodeficiency which is said to be a result of the mutation in the gene encoding the common gamma chain (?c) which is a protein that is said to be used by the receptors for interleukins IL-2, IL-4, IL-7, IL-9, IL-15 and IL-21 which are in turn involved in the development and variance of the T and B cells. The symptoms and manifestation of the mutation of the said gene causes a non-functional interleukin signalling which may result to a failure of the immune system to develop and function inasmuch as there is low or none T cells and non-functioning B cells. X-linked severe combined immunodeficiency is said to be an inherited disorder through an X-linked recessive pattern.
13870	Palpebrarum is a small plaque which is ofte yellowish in color that presents on the eyelids. Palpebrarum usually occurs in diabetes patients and to people having high cholesterol levels or lipid in their blood. The plaques usually contain high fat deposits. This condition is also called xanthelasma palpebrarum.
13871	Xanthine oxydase deficiency otherwise known as the Xanthinuria, is a genetic disorder which causes deficiency of xanthine oxidase which is an enzyme that is needed for converting the xanthine to uric acid.
13872	Xanthinuria otherwise known as the Xanthine oxydase deficiency , is a genetic disorder which causes deficiency of xanthine oxidase which is an enzyme that is needed for converting the xanthine to uric acid.
13873	Xanthoma, otherwise known as the xanthomata or the xanthomatosis is a medical condition that is characterized by the deposition of yellowish cholesterol-rich material in the tendons of the body.
13874	Cerebrotendineous xanthomatosis otherwise known as the cerebrotendinous xanthomatosis, or Van Bogaert-Scherer-Epstein syndrome, or the cerebrotendinous cholesterosis, is a kind of xanthomatosis that isassociated with the CYP27A1 geneon the 2nd Chromosome.
13875	Xeroderma pigmentosum or XP for brevity, is said to be an autosomal recessive genetic disorder of DNA repair where it is characterized by the inability to repair Ultraviolet or UV damages. More often it usually leads to the multiple basaliomas and skin malignancies.
13876	Type 1 Xeroderma pigmentosum other wise known as the Xeroderma pigmentosum group A is the most classical form of Xeroderma pigmentosum whereby the gene variation involves the XPA located at the 9q22.3. Its symptoms are the same as those of the Xeroderma Pigmentosum itself and the only difference is the gene variation and its location.
13877	Type 2 Xeroderma pigmentosum or the Xeroderma pigmentosum group B is a complementation subgroup of the main disorder Xeroderma pigmentosum. The gene variation involved in this subtype of the Xeroderma pigmentosum is the XPB gene located at the 2q21. Symptoms are the same as that of the Xeroderma Pigmentosum.
13878	Type 3 Xeroderma pigmentosum or the Xeroderma pigmentosum group C is a subtype of Xeroderma pigmentosum whereby the variation in the gene involved is the XPC located at the 3p25. Symptoms and treatment usually is the same as that of the Xeroderma Pigmentosum.
13879	Type 5 Xeroderma pigmentosum or the Xeroderma pigmentosum group E is a subtype of the Xeroderma pigmentosum where the variation in the gene involved is the DDB2 located at the 11p12-p11. This type only difference to the rest of the types of the disorder as well as to the Xeroderma pigmentosum itself is the gene variation involved and its location. Treatment as well as the symptoms are the same.
13880	Type 6 Xeroderma pigmentosum or the Xeroderma pigmentosum group F is a complementary group of the Xeroderma pigmentosum characterized by the variation in the gene ERCC4 located at the 16p13.3-p13.13. Symptoms as well as the treatments are similar to that of the Xeroderma pigmentosum itself.
13881	Type 7 Xeroderma pigmentosum otherwise known as the Xeroderma pigmentosum group G is a complementary group of the disorder Xeroderma pigmentosum characterized by the involvement of the gene RAD2 ERCC5 located at 13q33. Its symptoms as well as treatment and diagnosis are similar to that of the Xeroderma pigmentosum disorder itself.
13882	Variant type Xeroderma pigmentosum or XPV for brevity, is a complementary group of the disorder Xeroderma pigmentosum whereby the gene involved is the POLH located at the 6p21.1-p12. Usually person who has Xeroderma pigmentosum Variant type suffer from mutation of the gene that codes particular DNA polymerase named as the polymerase-? (eta) which are used when cells goes to a S-phase where there is a damage in the DNA.
13883	Xerophthalmia, a Greek term used to refer to Dry Eyes, is a condition whereby there is an unusal failure of the eye to produce tears.
13884	XX Male Syndrome otherwise known as the de la Chapelle Syndrome is an unusual sex chromosomal disorder especially observed in men. It is said to be caused by the unequal crossing over of the X and Y chromosome during the meiosis. Thus, normally men have only one chromosome and while the women are the one who have two chromosome, in this kind of syndrome, the male has two X chromosomes, thus the name of the sndrome. Its symptoms includes small testes, sterility and gynecomastia.
13885	XY Female otherwise known as the Swyer syndrome or the XY gonadal dysgenesis is a form of female hypogonadism where there is no functional gonads in a woman to start off her puberty as compare to a normal woman where her karyotype is an XY. The gonads of the woman who suffer this syndrome has no functional streaks. Treatment includes undergoing estrogen and progesterone therapy and the removal of the gonads inasmuch as it may turn to be a cancer in the end.
13886	Y chromosome microdeletion or YCM for brevity is a genetic disorder that is caused by missing gene in the chromosome Y.
13887	Yaws otherwise known as the PÎ˜tasse tropica, or the thymosis, the polypapilloma tropicum or the pian is an infection of the skin, bones and joints.
13888	Yeast infection is medically known as candidiasis it is an infection caused by fungi of any of the Candida species where in the most common type is the Candida albicans. Yeast infection can range from superficial to systemic which can be a dangerous disease.
13889	Yellow fever otherwise known as the yellow jack, the black vomit or the vomito negro, or the American Plague, is a viral and acute disease (Schmaljohn AL, McClain D. (1996 isbn= 0-9631172-1-1). Alphaviruses (Togaviridae) and Flaviviruses (Flaviviridae). In: Baron's Medical Microbiology (Baron S et al, eds.), 4th ed., Univ of Texas Medical Branch).
13890	Yellow nail syndrome is a medical condition which includes the pleural effusions, lymphoedema, discoloration of the nails.
13891	Yersinia is a gram-negative rod-shaped genus of bacteria belonging to the family Enterobacteriaceae. They are usually a few micrometers in length and fractions of a micrometer in diameter. The natural reservoirs of Yersinia are rodents and, though less likely, other mammals. In humans, some species of Yersinia are pathogenic and cause infections through the blood or via the alimentary tract. Yersiniosis is the name of the disease caused by Yersinia in humans.
13892	Yersinia pestis otherwise known as the Pasteurella pestis is a gram-negative facultative and anaerobic bipolar staining that makes it look as a safety pin bacteria which belongs to the family of Enterobacteriaceae (Collins FM (1996). Pasteurella, Yersinia, and Francisella. In: Baron's Medical Microbiology (Baron S et al, eds.), 4th ed., Univ of Texas Medical Branch). Yersinia Pestive have three distinct forms namely: the bubonic, the pneumonic, and the septicemic plague.
13893	Yersiniosis is an infectious disease that is caused by the bacteria belonging to the genus Yersinia. More often the most particular form of Yersiniosis which affects young children the Yersinia Enterocolitica. Its symptoms depends on the age of the infected person but commonly, it includes fever, abdominal pain and bloody diarrhea.
13894	Yips are characterized as a sudden and involuntary jerk or tremor that affects the wrists and hands. This condition is more commonly found among golfers and can interrupt a putting stroke. In some cases, yips can be associated with a neurological dysfunction that affects certain muscle groups.
13895	Yolk sac tumor, YST for brevity, and which is otherwise known as the Endodermal sinus tumor or the infantile embryonal carcinoma, is a type of germ cell tumor group of cancers and is said to be common to children under three years old.
13896	Young Simpson Syndrome or YSS for brevity, is an unusual congenital disorder discovered in 1987. Manifestation of the Syndrome includes hypothyroidism, heart defects, facial dysmorphism, cryptorchidism in males, hypothyroidism and even mental retardation and torticollis. It is said that these symptoms are similar to those of the Ohdo Blepharophimosis syndrome. Theories varies regarding the Yound Simpson Syndrome's mode of inheritance. One group suggests that is is through an autosomal recessive inheritance while another group says its is not.
13897	Young's syndrome is a condition of combined syndromes such as bronchiectasis, rhinosinusitis, and reduced fertility. It is also referred to as Azoospermia sinopulmonary infections, Sinusitis-infertility syndrome, and Barry-Perkins-Young syndrome.
13898	Yunis-Varon syndrome is a congenital disorder that affects the skeletal system, ectodermal tissue, and cardiorespiratory systems.
13899	Yusho disease, which literally means oil disease, is due to PCB poisoning. In 1968, a mass poisoning caused by PCBs occurred in northern Kyushu, Japan. A similar case that occurred in Taiwan was known as Yu-Cheng disease.
13900	Zadik Barak Levin Syndrome is a congenital disorder resulting from a defect in the mesodermal-ectodermal midline development of the embryo.
13901	ZAP70 deficiency, the short term used for zeta-chain-associated protein 70 kD deficiency, is a rare and severe combined immunodeficiency.
13902	Zazam Sheriff Phillips syndrome is a rare and genetically inherited congenital syndrome.
13903	Zellweger syndrome is a congenital disorder caused by reduced or absent peroxisomes in the cells of the liver, kidneys, and brain. Peroximes are cell structures that get rid of toxic substances in the body. The syndrome belongs to a group of peroxisomal diseases, which affect brain development and the growth of the myelin sheath on nerve fibers in the brain.
13904	Zimmerman-Laband syndrome is a genetically inherited congenital disorder, which is also referred to as Laband's Syndrome.
13905	Zinc deficiency is a medical condition whereby there is a low intake of zinc which is an essential mineral in every cell.
13906	It is an uncommon disease that results from a tumor referred to as gastrinoma which often occurs in the pancreas. The tumor then extracts the hormone that causes gastrin which in turn results to elevated growth of gastric acid which leads to extreme recurring ulcers of the esophagus, stomach and the upper portions of the small intestine.
13907	This is a condition where in cataracts only affects specific layers of the lens which is a rare condition and follows a x-linked pattern of inheritance.
13908	It is a rare condition related with a variety of disease and symptoms like Pectus excavatum, macrocephaly and dysplastic nails, familial short stature, delay in development and distinctive facies. The name of the syndrome came from the researchers who first described and determined the syndrome and its clinical signs. It is also believed that the syndrome is inherited in a pattern known as autosomal dominant and there are no new researches regarding this disease.
13909	Zunich-Kaye syndrome is also known as Zunich neuroectodermal syndrome. It is a unique congenital ichthyosis first described in 1983. It is also allude to as CHIME disorder. It is a hereditary syndrome with only a scarce cases studied and published. Zunich-Kaye syndrome has an autosomal retreating pattern of inheritance.
13910	Zuska's Disease, also known as lactiferous fistula, is a rare recurrent condition characterized by draining abscesses around the nipple. This disease is often misanalyzed and miscured, occasionally resulting in unnecessary mastectomy.
