20010	With the onset of the deficiency, various symptoms start to show such as hypotonia, hypertrophic cardiomyopathy infections for children under the age of 2, or hypoglycemia which manifests after long fasts. Patients later acquire peripheral neuropathy and retinopathy. The HELLP (haemolysis, elevated liver enzymes, low platelets) syndrome could also show among heterozygous mothers. Diagnosis of the disorder can only be confirmed by specifying the mutation of the G1528C enzyme or by the measurement of enzymatic activities. For expecting mothers, there are available prenatal diagnoses which involve the use of amniocytes. Most of the signs of this disorder show during infancy or on the onset of early childhood. The most common that parents should take note of are: difficulty in feeding the child; lethargy or the lack of vigor; problems with the liver; eye abnormalities; muscle pains; and also nervous system abnormalities. Other reported cases also include feeling sleepy most of the time, nausea, vomiting, jitteriness, weakness, irritability and some changes in behavior. The most serious cases could lead to problems in breathing, coma, or even very sudden death.
20012	The distinct traits of Type I include delay in speech and development (whether motor or mental skills); muscle tone abnormality or dystonia; spasms and spastic quadriparesis; and metabolic acidosis or the elevation of acid levels in tissues and blood. Barth syndrome's characteristics include dilated cardiomyopathy or an enlarged and weak heart; stunted growth; skeletal problems; neutropenia or infection due to insufficient number of white blood corpuscles. About 1 in every 200,000 male infants have the type II of MGA. Type III is characterized by optic nerve degeneration; problems of the nervous system; bad posture; some involuntary movements; and generally, a decrease in functions of the brain. 1 in every 10,000 births among Jewish-Iraqis have the Type III of MGA. Type IV shows varying symptoms which are similar to the characteristics of types I-III.
20013	Glaucoma is a very common symptom of 3C syndrome. Other characteristics include the following: 1. congenital heart ailments 2. damaged nasal bridge 3. a case where the patient Dandy-walks 4. a prominent forehead 5. a high-vaulted palate or a narrow palate 6. eyes that are wide set 7. cleft soft palate 8. bifid uvula 9. ears that are low-set 10. a big-sized head 11. stunted mental development 12. defects on speech functions 13. abnormal number of ribs 14. a case called Simian crease 15. large fontanelle 16. lung disease (chronic inflammatory) 17. a mouth that's held open 18 anteverted nostrils 19. an abnormal-sized nose (small) 21. retardation of psychomotor skills
20014	The major symptoms of 3M syndrome are dwarfism, radiological and facies abnormal conditions. Other symptoms and signs include: prominence of the muscles of the upper back; small chest area; stunted growth of a developing fetus; shoulder blades that protrude; shoulders that are squared; a short pinky; the heels of the feet looking prominent; hypogonadism; joints of the body become loose; abnormal location of the opening of the penis; abnormal birth weight (very low); a face that looks triangular; the bridge of the nose that appears sunken; bursting eyebrows; a chin that looks pointed; prominent mouth and lips; abnormalities of the skeletal system; just to name a few. It was also observed that the Russell Silver syndrome bears a few resemblances to 3M. Some less prevalent symptoms include crowding of teeth in children, cheeks that appear flat, and bent fingers.
20016	More often than not, the patients become sterile when they become XXY males. There is a slight chance, though, that reproductive aid may be given. There are also reported cases of impairment in learning verbal skills and this is often diagnosed when neuropsychological tests are done. Some males who are afflicted with this condition could also develop the so-called 'man boobs' or enlarged male breasts. About 10% of the known cases of gynecomastia would need surgery. Hypogonadism could also result once the extra X gene is acquired. This means that the patient would have testicles that malfunction. The most severe cases could even develop tumors and cancer cells where the male patients suffer from breast cancer.
20018	There are various characteristics that point to the 48 XXXX syndrome. The range could be from mild symptoms to acute ones. The most distinct features of a female patient that suffers from quadruple X are epicanthal folds; having small mouth openings; cleft palate or high-roofed palates; the absence of teeth or the delay of their appearance; or defects on the teeth's enamel. There are also reported cases where the patients are much taller and lankier. Other common signs include skeletal system abnormalities; muscle and joint problems; and hypotonia. It is also apparent that females with 48 XXXX syndrome do not develop normally. Most of them experience speech retardation and delays on their skills in reading, language, and reasoning. Eye problems are also common with the presence of this condition. This could include myopia, coloboma, hypoplasia of the optic nerves, or nystagmus. The most severe cases could be renal, nervous and circulatory system malfunctions. Also, there are some girls who undergo the menopausal stage early in their teenage years.
20023	Symptoms of this disorder could include: a mild case (which could also progress as the child ages) of being short in stature. This is often not obvious and can only be noticed once the child reaches the age of 1 to 3 years; a delay on the maturation of sexual characteristics; having a round facial feature; the eyelids appear to be drooping and the eyes are set wide apart; the nose could appear small with the slits tilted forward; a crease could appear below the lips; there could also appear a broad groove right above the lips; the middle part of the face could be underdeveloped; toes and fingers could appear webbed; a delay on tooth eruption; mental deficit (which could range from mild to moderate); a navel that protrudes; testicles that are 'undescended'; palpebral slant; and a chest that could appear sunken (pectus excavatum).
20024	Some of the most common traits that can be found are: mild retardation on a person's growth; a skin that appears pale; a setback on the closure of the soft spots or fontanelles; thin shoulders; thumbs that appear to have three joints; little knuckles; very little finger joint creases; inborn contractures; cleft palate; ears that are deformed; and eyelids that droop.
20025	Among the symptoms of the disorder include paleness, slowed growth, delayed closure of soft spots, narrow shoulders, cleft palate, hypermobility and deformed ears. Others meanwhile show droopy eyelids.
20026	A person who is observed to be presenting symptoms of great distress when obligated to travel by air is a clear manifestation of aviophobia. Panic attacks and vomiting may be presented upon seeing an aircraft or mentioning air travel.
20028	Aneurysms do not develop overnight. In fact, they develop very slowly as the years pass and the terrible thing about it is, it often does not show symptoms. They can also expand rapidly and make openings or tears. When this happens, blood would leak along the vessel walls and this is the time when the symptoms would start to show. Symptoms of vessel rupture include: rigidity of the abdomen, anxiety, severe pain in one's abdomen (it could be a persistent, sudden or constant pain), a feeling of pulsation in the abdomen, the skin feels cold or clammy, vomiting and nausea, the heart rate quickens when the patient attempts to stand; masses in the abdomen, and shock.
20029	Symptoms of the condition may vary. These symptoms are dependent on the location of the tumor and the most common that appear are: obstruction of the intestine; distension of the abdomen; lymphoedema on the patient's legs; organ compression (especially the organs that are located near the lymphangioma; pains in the abdomen; fever; vomiting (or symptoms of retching) and peritonitis (this is a condition when the abdominal cavity linings become inflamed).
20032	Abdominal pain itself is the symptom.
20035	The signs of the disorder include failure to thrive, star-shaped red blood cells, as well as fatty, foul-smelling stools. These symptoms can cause extreme pain on the infant, and may as well lead to problems with the central nervous system.
20038	The cardinal symptoms and signs of any kind of inflammatory process are redness (rubor), heat (calor), swelling (tumor), pain (dolor) and loss of function. It may occur in any kind of solid tissue but most commonly on skin surface where they may be superficial pustules (boils) or deep skin abscesses.
20039	Classic signs of Bartholin's abscess include: the appearance of a tender lump on both sides of the vaginal opening, pain during sexual intercourse, and fever. In women older than 40 years old, a swollen Bartholin's gland may indicate the presence of a tumor in the gland, albeit only rarely. If the abscess is scraped off from the surrounding tissue, a chronic Bartholin's duct cyst may potentially develop. In most cases, the abscess appears and becomes very hot and swollen after 2-3 days. Any type of activity that puts pressure on the vulva, even sitting down or walking around, may cause excruciating pain.
20040	Symptoms of absence seizures include lip smacking, fluttering eyelids, staring without unusual movements, chewing and hand movements. These episodes may last for ony a few seconds or so and full recovery is instantaneous.
20044	Infectious symptoms include itchy, red skin (pruritis), pains on the chest and the abdomen, muscular pains (also known as myalgia), and some areas of contained swelling (or edema). Also, the spleen and the liver may become enlarged at an abnormal state (also called hepatosplenomegaly). Tests in laboratories may reveal abnormal elevations of the levels of some particular white blood cells (also termed eosinophilia). Another symptom is the occurrence of cold legs or having a cold sensation or feeling on one's legs.
20053	There are many symptoms of achalasia: dysphagia or difficulty in swallowing food; coughing (more so when the patient reclines or lies down); regurgitation of food that hasn't been digested yet; loss of weight because of insufficient food intake; heartburn; belching difficulties; NCCP or non-cardiac chest pains which may also affect the jaw, back, neck and arms; recurrent hiccups.
20055	The two most apparent symptoms are the absence of feet and hands. Sometimes the feet just appear malformed. Deformity of the limb bones is the most common complication that results from Acheiropodia.
20056	Dull ache or pain when pushing foot off the ground while walking or just plainly rising your toes. A crackling sound upon touching and moving the Achilles tendon. A mild lump in the area of the tendon. Stiffness that minimizes when tendon warms up. Tenderness and other cardinal signs of inflammation in the area usually over the Achilles tendon.
20057	The symptoms of an Achilles tendon rupture may include the inability to bend the foot downward and difficulty in walking. Sever pain may also be experienced with swelling near the heel.
20061	Symptoms includes decreased muscle tone, spinal stenosis, spinal curvatures, frontal bossing, abnormal appearance of the long and ring fingers, and short arms and legs.
20062	Complete achormatopsia is characterized by the inability to tell one color apart from the other. Those with this type have many other ophthalmologic defects. Among these aberrations are nystagmus, visual acuity, and acute photophobia. Also, the fundus may be normal but photopic ERG response is non-existent. The function of the rod cell is still normal. Incomplete achormatopsia may have most of the symptoms of complete achormatopsia but they are in the reduced form. Those with this type have diminished visual acuity either with or without photophobia or nystagmus. Also, these patients manifest incomplete impairment of the function of the cone cell. Rod cell function, just like the first type, still remains normal. Visual stability and acuity get better on the first six to seven years of the child's life.
20067	The most common characteristic of isovaleric acedemia is the distinct odor of the feet which are also sweaty. The cause of this stinky odor is the buildup of a certain compound which is called isovaleric acid among affected people. Approximately half of the cases who are afflicted with this illness manifest symptoms such as vomiting, poor feeding, lack of energy and seizures. These symptoms could complicate and result into coma. These medical issues are usually severely fatal. On the other half of the cases, the signs of the illness occur while in childhood and may recur or simply disappear as the years go by. These are often triggered by the over consumption of protein-rich food or by an infection. The urine of newborn babies could be screened for isovaleric acidemia with the use of mass spectrometry. Early diagnosis could help in the treatment of the disease.
20068	The symptoms occur and become apparent on the first few weeks of an infant's life and it may include unusually reduced muscle tone or hypotonia; listlessness or lethargy; poor feeding; extreme loss of fluid from body tissues (also termed as dehydration); and uncontrolled episodes of electrical activities in one's brain typically known as seizures. If treatment is not given immediately, this disorder could result into coma or it could be fatal for the patient. Death can happen very quickly because of secondary hyperammonemia, cardiomyopathy, infection or stroke of the basal ganglia. In very rare instances, the disorder may become obvious on the later part of infancy and it may be linked with less acute findings and symptoms. Propionic acedemia is an inherited autosomal recessive trait.
20069	Acinetobacter causes a large variety of diseases that can range from pneumonia to serious wound or blood infections. Symptoms vary depending on the acquired disease or medical condition.
20070	At the time of the occurrence of an ACL injury, symptoms may include a loud popping sound, severe pain, swelling on the knee as well as the feeling of instability with bearing the body weight.
20072	Symptoms includes occurrence of an acne that looks like and appears like a cyst though they are not true cyst inasmuch as they are not abnormal dilation of the skin but only inflammation of nodules.
20075	Its symptoms includes loss of balance inasmuch as the tumor preses into the nerves that controls balance and hearing, one side hearing, ringing in the ear, dizziness and balance problems.
20076	Acquired ichthyosis also known as ichthyyosis acquisita has the same characteristics as hereditary ichthyosis or ichthyosis vulgaris. These signs include: dry or rough areas of the skin; scales on the skin (it may appear as small scales or it could also be thick scales); darker people with darker scales; a scaly and dry scalp; hyperkeratosis or overgrowth of skin on soles and palms; cracks on skin creases during the dry season; follicular hyperkeratosis (keratosis pilaris) on the neck's side; keratosis pilaris on the back portion of the upper arms, thighs or buttocks. It can develop in individuals with certain kinds of malignant illness and infectious conditions, also in vitamin A and dietary deficiencies, in patients who are undergoing dialysis, or sometimes for no apparent reasons.
20078	Both the congenital and acquired forms of syphilis could cause sensori-neural loss of hearing. Acquired syphilis (in both secondary and tertiary forms) may cause actual deafness. The clinical path of acquired and inborn syphilis is alike. The sensori-neural loss of hearing with low scores on discrimination could affect the two ears sequentially or simultaneously, and the vestibular complaints are also ordinary. Clinical diagnoses could be made with historical basis and the presence of other syphilis stigmata, and other serological tests (which include FTA-ABS). Histopathology of acquired syphilis may also cause meningo-neurolabyrinthitis accompanied with round cell penetration of the eighth nerve and labyrinth as the predominant lesion of the early congenital form and the acquired late latent form or tertiary syphilis. Endolymphatic hydrops could be seen in acquired syphilis. A histological diagnosis of the involvement of syphilis on the temporal bone was done by incudectomy.
20079	The most common signs of acrocephaly are fast breathing, fatigue, shortness of breathing, mental retardation (often characterized by low IQ among patients), rapid heart rate (also known as tachycardia), swelling symptoms, and pointy skull.
20080	These skin tags are flesh-colored growths on a thin stalk, ranging in size from small to large and are most commonly found on the neck, eyelids, armpits and in the groin area.
20082	The most common symptoms of acrodermatitis enteropathica start to show up in the first few months after being weaned from breast milk. The following symptoms would soon occur after weaning: erythematous plaques and patches of dry skin (that could also appear scaly); eczematous lesions (which could progress into crusted bullas, vesicles or pustules); anal and oral lesions; hand, scalp and feet lesions; suppurative inflammation could also occur on the nail fold which surrounds the nail plate (also called as paronychia); apparent hair loss on the eyebrows, scalp and eyelashes (or alopecia). The skin lesions could be infected secondarily by staphylococcus aureus which is a bacteria or Candida albicans which is a type of fungus. It is often that these lesions come with acute diarrhea.
20083	The most common characteristics of acrodysostosis are: mild to average growth retardation; mental defect; hearing defects; and recurrent infections of the middle ear. The most probable complications include: arthritis; carpal tunnel syndrome; and a worsening range of spinal, elbow or hand movements.
20084	The most common symptoms of acrodysplasia are short stature; sometimes fibular hypoplasia; and, in some cases, retardation of the patient's mental development.
20085	The signs of acrodystrophic neuropathy are disordered sleep, cramps, hallucinastions, hyperhidrosis, muscle weakness and extreme pain in the long muscles. In some cases, breathing difficulties are present.
20086	The most major symptoms of Nager syndrome often include the underdevelopment of the jaw and cheek areas; a jaw that may appear smaller than the usual or normal jaw; the absence or lack of eyelashes; hearing problems (and some defects on the external or internal ear area); cleft palate (which is a congenital defect of the mouth or the lip); the absence or underdevelopment of the thumb or thumbs; forearms that appear short (the forearms could altogether be absent of the radius bone); the bones of the forearms could also fuse; poor elbow movements (or limited extension of this body part); ears that appear to be backwards rotated; the ears could also manifest some skin tags (or it could be low-set); and feeding and breathing problems (most especially among infants who are afflicted with this syndrome). Other patients show difficulty in speech articulation; underdeveloped bones of the cheeks; the bridge of the nose appears to be high; the eyelids appear down-slanted; and conductive deafness (any loss of hearing or impairment that is caused by a certain defect in the ear which conducts sound). More severe symptoms of Nager type acrofacial dysostosis are: the early delivery of an infant (the fetus is younger than 37 weeks) or premature birth; and respiratory problems.
20087	The characteristics that are common to acromegaly are serious disfigurement, severe conditions that result into complications and even early death when the condition is left unchecked. The most common age range that is affected by this disorder is the early 20's. The disease is often difficult to diagnose during its early stages and it is often missed for many successive years. The disease only becomes apparent when the external features start to manifest the signs. This disorder is usually linked with gigantism. This is when the patient's feet, hands, nose, ears, and lips become thickened. The internal organs also become swollen (more so with the heart which is weakened and also the kidneys); the vocal cords of the patient become weak and thus the voice deepens; a skull expansion at the fontanelle; the brows protrude which often results into ocular distension; the lower jaw also protrudes which also comes with macroglossia and gapping of the teeth. Complications that can result from this disorder are: acute headache; carpal tunnel syndrome; arthritis; enlargement of the heart; hypertension; failure of the heart; diabetes mellitus; kidney failure; optic chiasm compression which leads to vision loss on the outer fields (generally bitemporal hemianopia); an increased sweating of the palms; and production of sebum on the face (also called seborrhea).
20088	Aside from the smiling expression which remains on the face, other symptoms of the illness include having short stature; brachdactyly; delays on the development of the patient; speech retardation (which could be attributed to hearing problems); and multiplex-like alterations on the feet and hands (also known as dysostosis). Psychomotor retardation is not a common occurrence but it is still considered as one of the symptoms of acromicric dysplasia. All though there are a lot of retardation in different anatomical aspects, the intelligence of the patient remains intact, meaning, they manifest normal intelligence. There are some patients who show signs of the heart valves and liver being infiltrated with a mucopolysaccahride-like substance. This disorder has some similarities with other illnesses such as Moore-Ferdermann syndrome and geleophysic dysplasia. All three are characterized by the symptoms that have been previously mentioned and this is an indication that they have the same metabolic pathway. The difference is on the allelic forms of the illnesses.
20092	Located on the lips, actinic cheilitis is most often on the lower lip. Among the signs and symptoms noted are scaliness, persistent redness and chapping of the lip. Cracks (fissures) and erosions may be present as well.
20094	The symptoms of actinomycetales infection include inflammation of the lungs; the loss of appetite; chest pains; cough; coughing up of blood; weight loss; headache; weakness; lethargy (feeling of sluggishness or tiredness); abscesses of the organs; confusion; abscesses of the skin; fever; night sweating (usually cold sweats); a liver that is abnormally large; and an abnormally enlarged spleen.
20096	The clinical symptoms include: thrombosis; placental abruption; preeclampsia; intrauterine growth impairment; and stillbirths. These symptoms are highly different in APC resistant people. Some patients do not get thrombosis while a few others suffer from recurring acute thrombotic incidents. The homozygosity for the mutation on Leiden provides a greater risk of thrombosis when compared to heterozygosity. The risk of getting thrombosis is heightened by the other co-existent risk factors that are acquired or protein deficiencies. Other risk factors that are genetic for thrombosis also include lack of protein C, antithrombin III, and protein S. Factor II gene mutations and the MTHFR or homocysteine related methylene tetrahydrafolate polymorphism are also factors that increase the occurrence of thrombosis. The general risk factors that are acquired are pregnancy, trauma, contraceptive use, the presence of antibodies that are antiphospholipids, and surgery.
20097	The most common signs of acutane embryopathy are: microtia; facial asymmetry; stenosis of the outer ear canal; anotia; paralysis of the facial nerve; posterior helical pits; an ear that appears malformed; ipsilateral ear; sloping or narrow forehead; lower jaw appears small; abnormalities of hair pattern; accessory parietal suture; depressed or flat bridge of the nose; conotruncal malformation; tetralogy of fallot; a right ventricle that has dual outlets; truncus arteriosus communis; interruption or hypoplasia of the aortic arch; supracristal ventricular septal flaw; hydrocephalus; a head that appears small; errors on the structure of cortical neuronal migration and cerebellar neuronal migration; acute malformations of the structural posterior fossa; agenesis of vermis; megacistema; thymic defects; parathyroid defects; and cerebral hypoplasia. Looking back at all these symptoms, it is noticeable that some of them could just be simple defects. The other half of the list of symptoms shows severe malformations and abnormalities.
20098	Acute articular rheumatism is often associated with other medical maladies such as acute infections, rheumatic fever, heart and rheumatic conditions. Among the most common symptoms of acute articular rheumatism is characterized by inflammation of fibrous tissues and multiple arthritis. It also includes loss of appetite, malaise or the general feeling of discomfort, joint symptoms triggered by arthritis and fever. Patient's pulse is soft and frequent and usually over 100 and tongue is coated and moist.
20099	The signs that indicate the onset of the disease include incessant coughing, dyspnea and other flu-like symptoms.
20100	Symptoms includes coughing with sputum, shortness of breathing or dyspnea, wheezing, chest pains, fatigue and malaise.
20102	Patients suffering from acute erythroblastic leukemia often experience severe fatigue and weakness. Blood tests would also show less than the average number of white blood cells. Other strong indicators include chills and fever, loss of weight and appetite, easy bruising and bleeding due to the abnormally low platelet levels, joint pains, headaches, confusion and vomiting. Additionally, patients may also show considerable enlargement of the spleen and liver, which can be noticed by the telltale swelling of the abdomen and can be easily detected by doctors in a physical examination.
20103	The skin lesions is the primary and most obvious sign of this medical condition. The bumps, which are also called plaques can grow to a centimeter in diameter or even larger, and often appear on the neck, back, face and arms. Another indicators include pink eye (conjunctivitis), fatigue, moderate to high fever, headache and aching joints and mouth ulcers.
20104	Patients with acute gouty arthritis may feel some unexpected bursts of severe pain in the joints, more frequently on the base of the big toe. Other pain areas include the shoulder, knee, elbow, ankle, arm joints and foot. Joints may also appear to be distended, hot and tender. Fever can also develop.
20105	This disorder is characterized by burning and tingling sensations of the feet, and is hence followed by weakness of the limbs going up to the face. Other features of the disorder include increased protein levels in the cerebrospinal fluid as well as reduced deep tendon reflexes.
20106	For patients who inherited and are suffering from AIP, most symptoms usually manifest right after puberty, especially among women who undergo hormonal influences. These symptoms occur as attacks that can go on for hours and possibly stretch for several days. Indicators include severe abdominal pain, vomiting, constipation nausea, urinary retention, palpitation, seizures and hallucinations. Patient may also feel pain around the arms, legs and beck area and well as general muscle weakness.
20107	Symptoms of acute kidney failure includes fluid retention that can cause swelling of the ankles, feet and legs, drowsiness, fatigue and confusion, shortness of breath, coma and seizures as well as chest pains. A decreased urine output may also be a telltale sign of a kidney failure.
20108	There are a number of symptoms that can be detected before an acute liver failure occurs. This includes the yellowing of the eyeballs and skin, as well as the tenderness felt in the right upper part of the abdomen. Other symptoms can also include sleepiness, muscle tremors, as well as disorientation and delirium.
20109	The initial symptoms of all are not specific but are known to worsen, requiring immediate medical attention. Among the known indicators include anemia, generalized fatigue and weakness, unexplained infections, fever and excessive bruising, weight loss, breathlessness, enlarged spleen and lymph nodes as well as joint pains.
20110	Among the usual indicators of acute monoblastic leukemia include asthenia or generalized weakness, pallor, unexplained fever, dizziness and other respiratory symptoms.
20111	Headache that occurs at 8000 feet is the first symptom associated with patients suffering from altitude sickness. Other indicators include fatigue, nausea and vomiting, insomnia, malaise and peripheral edema. In cases of extremely high altitude, life-threatening indicators include pulmonary and cerebral edema.
20112	The early symptoms of AML are quite similat to that of ALL or acute lymphocytic leukemia. However, meningitis is known to occur less often in AML compared to ALL. Other indicators include unexplained fatigue, easy bleeding and bruising, shortness of breat and increased susceptibility to infections.
20113	Simple gingivitis primary cause some telltale deepening of the sulcus or the gingival crevice which is found between the tooth and the gingival. This will soon be followed by a band of red, the inflamed gingiva growing more pronounced along one or more teeth, with characteristic swelling of the interdental papillae and causes easy bleeding
20114	Patients suffering from acute pancreatitis experience severe abdominal pain, fever, vomiting and diarrhea as well as the unexplained loss of appetite. Other indicators include some hemorrharic discoloration of the torso and umbilicus, pancreatic dysfunction or diabetes mellitus.
20115	Symptoms of Acute pancreatitis includes pain in the absomen, nausea, occurrence of grey turner sighs or the discoloration of the flanks, vomiting, diarrhea, fever, chilling, shock, sudden weight loss and loss of appetite.
20116	Symptoms commonly include some visual disturbances, such as flashes of light and the appearance of blood cells in the retina. APMPPE can also cause patient's blurred vision, twinge at the back of the eyes, frequent headaches, and eye redness. A light brown, yellow , or white opaque cluster can also be seen in the central vision.
20117	APL shares the common symptoms found in AML. This includes fatigue, fever, loss of appetite, easy bleeding, anemia, bone and joint pains as well as increased susceptibility to infections.
20118	Often, this kidney disorder does not display any symptoms and often go unnoticed. Some key indicators of acute renal failure include rapid heart rate, dizziness, loss of appetite and vomiting, flan pains, little or no urine.
20120	Signs and symptoms associated with acute sinusitis may include fever, facial pain, nasal congestion, erythema, dental pain, cough, bad breath, nausea and sore throat.
20121	The disease is mainly characterized by blisters that make the skin red and sore. Apart from damaging the dermis, mucous membranes of the eyes, mouth and throat also become swollen.
20124	Some individuals affected by MCADD have recurrent episodes of lethargy, metabolic acidosis, hypoglycemia, and coma. Symptoms usually begin early on in infancy or childhood. Some affected individuals, however, have no apparent symptoms at birth, but low blood sugar, seizures, brain damage, cardiac arrest and serious illness can occur very quickly in children who are not feeding well. As much as a quarter of affected individuals die in their first crisis so it is imperative to know that a person has this disease so that crisis can be prevented. More than half of individuals with MCADD die from their first crisis if it occurs after the age of two. MCADD occurs chiefly among Caucasians of northern European background.
20126	Symptoms of SCADD are the inability to thrive and hypoglycemia. Over time without proper treatment, development may be delayed.
20127	Symptoms includes colds, sore throat, bronchitis, pneumonia, diarrhea, conjunctivitis, fever, cytitis, illness and other neurologic disease.
20128	Some symptoms of a person with an addiction include reclusive behavior, where the individual spends long periods of time in self-imposed isolation. He may also have a change in friends and start hanging out with a new group. The person may also have long and unexplained absences and lie and steal. He may have involvement with the wrong side of the law, have deteriorating family relationships, possess an obvious intoxication, and may be delirious, incoherent, or unconscious. Other signs of addiction are changes in behavior and attitude, and a decrease in school performance.
20129	Symptoms includes low grade fever, beefy red smooth tongue, yellow waxy pallor with premature whitening of the hair, flabbiness, blotchy skin pigmentation, retinal hemorrhages and spenic tip.
20130	The symptoms of Addison's disease arise insidiously, and it may take some time to be recognized. The most common symptoms are muscle weakness, fatigue, weight loss, vomiting, , headache, diarrhea, sweating, changes in mood and personality and joint and muscle pains. Some have characteristic cravings for salt or salty foods due to the urinary losses of sodium. Other symptoms include low blood pressure that falls further when standing (orthostatic hypotension), darkening (hyperpigmentation) of the skin, including areas that are not exposed to the sun; characteristic sites are skin creases (e.g. of the hands), nipples, and the inside of the cheek (buccal mucosa), also old scars may darken, and goiter and vitiligo, signs of the condition that often occur together with Addison's.
20132	The list of symptoms associated with Mesenteric Adenitis includes abdominal pain, nausea, vomiting, swollen abdominal lymph nodes, loss of appetite, malaise, mild fever, headache and other symptoms that is usually associated by viral infection. While this medical condition is often mistaken as appendicitis, a close physical examination will help confirm that it does not share the common symptoms associated with appendicitis
20133	Up to a quarter of all people with lung cancer may have no symptoms when the cancer is diagnosed. These cancers typically are identified incidentally when a chest x-ray is performed for another reason. However, the majority of people develop symptoms. The symptoms are because of direct effects of the primary tumor, to effects of metastatic tumors in other parts of the body, or to disturbances of hormones, blood, or other systems caused by the cancer. Symptoms of primary lung cancers include chest pain, cough, coughing up blood, and shortness of breath. Symptoms of metastatic lung tumors also depend on the location and size. About 30%-40% of people with lung cancer have some symptoms or signs related to metastatic disease.
20134	These depend largely on the place of origin of the tumor. Early lesions of the salivary glands present as painless masses of the face or mouth, usually growing slowly. Advanced tumors may present with pain or nerve paralysis, for this neoplasm has a tendency to invade peripheral nerves. Tumors of the lacrimal gland may develop as proptosis and changes in vision. ACC arising in the tracheobronchial tree may present with respiratory symptoms, while tumors arising in the larynx may result to changes in speech.
20135	There are actually of set of symptoms can are applied to the different types of adenomas. There are several disorders that share similar symptoms. For colon adenoma, persistent adenoma may be a clear indication.
20136	Majority of the adrenal adenoma patients do not display any detectable symptoms. However, proper medical examination will show abnormal production of steroid hormones. Among the most common abnormalities include the overproduction of cortisol, which is a type of steroid hormone that is involved in nenergy balance and stress responses. Quite rarely, adenomas may trigger bleeding and cause pain in the patient's back or flank.
20137	The main symptom of adenomyosis is the absence of regular menstrual periods. Other key indicators include excessive menstrual bleeding, painful menstruation, headaches, passing blood clots during period and menstrual cramps.
20138	Since ADA is basically a deficiency that affects the body's immune system, people with such disorders can be easily susceptible to every kind of infections, most particularly those that affect the respiratory system, skin, and gastrointestinal tract. Babies that are born with this disease die within the first few months.
20139	The key indicators of AMD include the existence of drusens that start to enlarge. Blurry central vision is also one of the symptoms and patients should undergo visual acuity test to determine if the central vision is lost.
20142	The signs, symptoms as well as the physical findings that are associated with ASLD greatly differ from one case to case. As a rule, most patients suffering from ASLD usually present with certain mix of neurological symptoms that include some of the following: autistic features, psychomotor retardation, epilepsy, muscle wasting as well as secondary feeding problems. While abnormal features may not be common, it can possibly occur including small head circumference, severe growth failure, flat occiput and low set ears, among others.
20143	It's manifestation is depend on the complication of adhesion. Most common symptoms are pain of the affected area due to pulling of nerves that will last to minutes. Pain can be assess depending of the affected part of the body, such as adhesion of the liver pain occurs during deep breathing, pain when intercourse is a symptoms of vaginal or uterus adhesion. Fever also occur that will slowly increases. For stomach adhesion, there is a cramp pain in the abdomen, bowel sound disappear, bulging of the abdomen, peristaltic movement stop.
20144	Frozen shoulder normally develops slowly, and typically follows three stages of development, each stage lasting over several months or so. On the first stage, pain occurs with the movement of the shoulder with a gradual reduction of range of motion. As the pain diminishes, the shoulders grow stiffer with significant difficulty of moving the affected area. After several months, the shoulder starts to improve on its own.
20145	There are three common symptoms of Adie syndrome: losss of deep tendon reflexes, diaphoresis and abnormal pupil size. Other usual indicators include hyperopis, difficulty in reading and photophobia.
20146	Among the key symptoms of adiposis dolorosa is pain in the fatty tumors that can possibly last for three months. These pain in the skin and fat can be quite intense and swelling may occur in certain parts of the body. This type of pain in chronic and can increase in intensity with the years. Among the most affected areas include the trunk, knees, thighs, and forearms. Other symptoms are general fatigue, skeletal pain, disturbed sleep, memory lapses, and headaches.
20147	In most cases, adrenal cancer does not produce discernable symptoms. However, the common indicators include fever, weight loss, persistent abdominal pain, palpable abdominal mass, and the frequent sensation of fullness.
20148	Patients displaying non-sever symptoms include normal genitalia at birth, although clitoromegaly and pubic hair tend to appear in early childhood. Other indicators include high blood pressure and hypokalemia.
20151	Those who suffer from severe adrenal insufficiency usually manifest acute dehydration; hypoglycemia; hypotension; or the mental status of the patient being altered. These ordinarily occur in a patient that is already acutely ill (with sepsis or dispersed intravascular coagulation or a patient following a traumatic delivery. Patients with the severe type of adrenal insufficiency could have increased pigmentation of the skin especially on the genital region or the areola. They could also have some moles or scars. The most affected scars are the most recent ones. The areas of the body that are not regularly exposed to the sun (like the axillae, areola and palmar creases) are commonly hyperpigmented. Pigmentary lines could also occur on the gums. There are also cases of adrenal insufficiency where the manifestations are: weight loss; hypotension; orthostatic hypotension; loss of axillary or pubic hairs; and some patients do not become victims of alopecia because of the adrenal androgens that are being produced. OMIM 278000 or the Wolman disease is an autosomal recessive disease which is caused by a lac of lysosomal acid lipase. Wolman disease is generally coupled with adrenal calcification or heptosplenomegaly. These are often plainly seen on CT scans or radiographs of the adrenal glands.
20152	Adrenocortical carcinoma may have different manifestations in adults and children. Most of the tumors are functional in children and it is virilization that is the main symptom which is followed by precocious puberty and Cushing's syndrome. Adults have manifestations of hormonal syndromes and Cushing's syndrome is common. Conn syndrome and feminization are rare at only 10% of the cases. The rare symptoms for adrenocortical cancers include over secretion of catecholamines which is like pheochromocytoma. Tumors that are non-functional often present with flank or abdominal pain or they could be asymptomatic and detection is incidental. All patients with suspected ACC should be tested for signs of hormonal syndromes.
20154	The clinical manifestations of ALD are dependent on the age when the disease ensues. The severest type is the childhood cerebral type which often occurs in baby males aged 4 through 10. These patients often have seizures, ataxia, developmental retardation, adrenal insufficiency, and also degeneration of their auditory and visual functions. This type could also manifest in adolescents and, in rare cases, some adults. The other type of ALD is the spinal cord dysfunction which chiefly afflicts young men. This is a more prominent form and is therefore called adrenomyeloneuropathy or AMN. The AMN patients usually show numbness and weakness of the limbs and problems in urinating or defecating. Although most victims of this form are males, there are some cases where females also show symptoms of AMN. Clinical findings establish the diagnosis of this disorder. Serum long chain fatty acid level discoveries also establish the case. White matter defects are often shown by MRI scanning and the neuroimaging results are suggestive of multiple sclerosis findings. There are some centers that have genetic testing to analyze the defective gene.
20155	The most common symptoms of adrenomyodystrophy are chronic constipation; dystrophic myopathy; thriving failure; acute psychomotor retardation; and a bladder that is over swollen. What is often primarily addressed is the problem on psychomotor development. There can be physical therapies that can be done but these do not promise total recovery.
20156	The most common symptoms of AOSD are the following: waves of extreme fevers which could rise up to 40 degrees centigrade (which is about 104 in farenheit). The fever can be accompanied by fatigue; a skin rash that may manifest as salmon-colored and does not itch; a pain throughout the body which resembles the common influenza; muscle pains; and severe paints of the joints. Complications of the disease include swollen lymph glands; spleen and liver enlargement; pericarditis or the heart's inflammation (in some cases only); pleuritis and pericardial or pleural effusion. All the symptoms of the illness (even the high fevers) could last for a few months. The more long-term condition is that of the arthritis. The arthritic symptoms are often overlooked and that is where the problem ensues.
20157	Early warning signs of adult schizophrenia include the distorted perception of reality, confusion, bizarre thoughts, hallucinations, extreme mood swings, anxiety and fearfulness, social withdrawal, mood behavior, delusions and catatonic behavior.
20159	Symptoms includes severe constipation, blockage of the intestines and enlarged colon.
20160	The symptoms of agenesis of the corpus callosum are poor muscle tone, loose motor coordination, slow learning of sitting, walking and standing positions, vision problems and poor social interaction skills.
20162	The list below shows the known symptoms of Aggressive fibromatosis: Firm mass Compression of adjacent structures
20164	The most common symptoms that are associated with Agnogenic myeloid metaplasia include rapid heart beat, enlarged spleen, paleness, night sweats, weight loss and stuffed felling after eating.
20165	Patient with Agnosia will show abnormal physical and mental function depending on the type of agnosia and the injury of the brain.
20166	The list below shows the known symptoms of Agoraphobia: Fear of crowds Fear of public transport Public isolation Incapable to leave home alone Panic attacks Not all of the symptoms sited are evident to the patient, some symptoms may only be evident to a physician.
20167	The symptoms seen in a patient with Agyria includes: abnormal facial look, trouble swallowing, failure to thrive, and rigorous psychomotor retardation. Abnormalities of the hands, fingers, or toes, muscle spasms, and fits may also happen.
20174	Symptoms of airplane air include the moderate discomfort or pain in the ear, feeling of fullness in the ear, ringing. For long flights, some people experience bleeding in the era, pressure and severe to moderate hearing loss.
20175	The patient will manifest restlessness accompanied by severe anxiety, body weakness, and sense or feeling of fear or inner tension.
20177	Among the symptoms of this disease are jaundice, malfunctioning of the heart and liver, cholesterol deposits in the skin, and butterfly-shaped spinal column. The brain and kidneys may also be affected by the disease. Severe cases show obstruction of the small intestine and the need for liver transplantation.
20180	Due to hypopigmentation, albinos are unnaturally white and often display eye defects such as nystagmus, strabismus, myopia, photophobia or the hypersensitivity to bright lights, optic nerve hypoplasia and abnormal decussation of the fibers of the optic nerves in the optic chiasm.
20181	ò Light sensitivity ò Changing nystagmus upon light exposure ò Weakness ò Fever ò Cerebellar tremor ò Loss of coordination ò Paralysis/immobility ò Progressive peripheral neuropathy ò Enlarged/swollen liver ò Anemia ò Low blood platelet level ò Decreased level of leukocytes in blood ò Decreased level of platelets in blood ò Easy bruising ò Excessive/too much bleeding tendency ò Retarded growth
20182	This disorder is characterized by the abnormal lack of renal responsiveness that would usually result to high serum phosphate and low serum calcium. Other related symptoms include round face and abnormally short neck, short stature, subcutaneous calcification and short hand bones.
20183	It is supposed that when two of the three subsequent features are evident: (autonomous) endocrine hyperfunction such as precocious puberty Fibrous dysplasia CafΘ-au-lait spots
20184	Symptoms include skin pigmentations in body areas that are directly under sun exposure, brownish sweat and progressive and premature deterioration of the joints and bones. Pigmentation may also be deposited in the respiratory organs such as the bronchi, windpipe and larynx.
20185	The symptoms of alcohol fetopathy includes low birth weight, abnormal facial features, delayed growth, intellectual impairment, behavioral problems, speech and hearing impairment, Low IQ, growth deficiency, poor, hand-eye coordination, weak grasp, infant irritability, small head, and childhood hyperactivity. Other key indicators include abnormal joint position and function, thin upper lip, short nose, maxillary hypoplasia, small distal phalanges, poor judgment, distractibility, and the difficulty in recognizing social clues.
20186	People with mild cases of alcoholic hepatitis may not experience perceptible problems, but as the disease advance, the liver becomes more damaged, the signs and symptoms are more likely to develop. These may include nausea and vomiting, abdominal pain, loss of appetite, fever, yellow skin, mental confusion and unexplained fatigue. Symptoms may vary according to the severity of the disease.
20187	People afflicted with the disorder show signs of degenerating cognitive skills, memory loss, personality changes and delirium.
20188	Confusion, stupor, vomiting, seizures, slow or irregular breathing, blue-tinged skin or pale skin, low body temperature (hypothermia), unconsciousness ("passing out"), slow breathing (fewer than eight breaths per minute)
20189	Signs of alcoholism and alcohol abuse include: Being unable to limit the amount of alcohol you drink, not remembering conversations or commitments, sometimes referred to as "blacking out", building a tolerance to alcohol so that you need an increasing number of drinks to feel alcohol's effects.
20190	In the case of primary aldosteroinism, high blood pressure does not respond completely to medication, and this is the most common symptom of the disease. Other signs include headaches, fatigue, muscle cramps and weakness, temporary paralysis, excessive thirsts, excessive urination, tingling and pricking sensation and numbness.
20191	Alexander disease is considered as a very rare type of neurological conditions that is known as leukodystrophies, which is a disorder results from abnormalities in myelin, the "white substance" that protects the nerve fibers in the brain. Alexander disease is progressive in nature and is usually fatal.
20192	Patients with alien hand syndrome are able to retain the normal sensation of the hand. However control of the hand actions is difficult to maintain even if that particular body part is still attached to the body. Patients often experience difficulty in performing complex hand actions such as removing cloths and manipulation of clothes. Most of the time the individual is unaware of the action of the alien hand until the actions are brought to her/his attention.
20193	The following are the signs and symptoms of alkalosis, Confusion that can lead to coma, hand tremor, light-headedness, muscle twitching, nausea and vomiting. Paresthesia on face and extremities, and prolong muscle spasm also called as tetany.
20194	Individuals who are usually affected with alkaptonuria display some distinct bluish tint on the patient's outer ears, the whites of the eyes and nose. The urine also becomes distinctly black, which is due to the accumulation of homogenistic acid in the body. Another indicator is the cartilage calcification that can be detected through x-ray. The heart halves can also be seriously impaired.
20195	Some of the symptoms that are associated with this syndrome include the wasting of muscles, experience of stiffness and weakness of the legs, movement abnormalities, as well as possible deformities of the facial and skull region. The patient may also find it difficult to speak and as well as gain control of the voluntary movements.
20196	There are actually three different development levels of this medical condition, and each stage displays its own symptoms, which largely depends on what organ is affected. In the allergic reaction phase, the patient displays asthma-like symptoms along with sinus inflammation and pain as well as hay fever. In the Second stage, hypereosinophilia, the body begins to produce an abnormally large number of eosinophils that helps fight of infection. General symptoms include night sweats, weight loss, fever, gastrointestinal bleeding, abdominal pain and cough. The third phase, patient experience weight loss, fatigues, malaise and swollen lymph nodes.
20197	Symptoms includes wheezing, coughing,dyspnea and pain in the chest.
20198	The symptoms of allergic bronchopulmonary aspergillus include wheezing and coughing, fever, malaise, recurrent pneumonia, and worsening of asthma or the existing cystic fibrosis.
20199	Symptoms includes wheezing, coughing, itching, occurrence of hives, nausea, vomiting and diarrhea.
20200	Characteristic symptoms include repetitive sneezing; rhinorrhea (runny nose); post-nasal drip; nasal congestion; pruritic (itchy) eyes, ears, nose or throat; and remarkable feeling of being exhausted. Wheezing, eye tearing, sore throat, and impaired smell are also remarkable traits of the disease.
20201	Alopecia has several symptoms that vary depending on the type of hair loss. For male pattern baldness, signs include receding hairline and excessive hair fall. Female patterns include thinning of hair and excessive hair loss.
20202	Among the common symptoms of alopecia areata include balding, bald patches and hair loss. The symptoms gradually increase over time.
20205	The signs and symptoms of female alopecia include hair loss at the crown or hairline, from mild to moderate and the thinning of hair over the entire head.
20206	For male pattern baldness, the most common location occurs at the frontal hairline and may move to toward the back of the scalp (posteriorly), or may be first noted as the thinning at the crown of the scalp. Appearing normal, a man might see miniaturized hair follicles with the underlying scalp.
20207	The first symptoms of Alpers' disease include seizures and failure to meet proper development. These symptoms usually occur during the first year of an infant's life, but can also appear in children aged 5 years old. Primary symptoms of Alpers' disease include progressive mental retardation, developmental delay, low muscle tone, progressive dementia and limb stiffness that may lead to quadriplegia. When seizures occur, the child may experience epilepsia partialis continua, a seizure consisting of repeated muscle jerks. A few cases of optic atrophy may occur, some even lead to blindness. Others experience deafness. Many patients of Alpers' disease suffer from liver impairment that leads to liver failure. Unfortunately, physical signs of liver problems may not be present.
20208	Symptoms of A1AD include wheezing, rales, rhonchi and shortness of breath. These symptoms may resemble asthma that does not react to treatments. Patients with Alpha-1 may develop emphysema around their 30s and 40s even without a smoking history. This condition also causes impaired liver function, which could lead to liver failure or cirrhosis.
20209	Patients with alpha-mannosidosis experience cerebral symptoms, including brain dysfunction and gait. For mentally retarded patients, learning problems may also occur. However, these problems can be reduced by enrolling children in special schools taught by professional teachers. Some patients may also experience hearing loss and problems with transferring sound through the middle ear, which are both caused by nerve dysfunction. Because of this, patients may also experience a delay in ability of speech, including restricted vocabulary, incomplete sentences and understanding of abstracts. Majority of patients with alpha-mannosidosis has recurrent infections. These infections may affect the middle ear, gastrointestinal tract and the upper or lower respiratory tract. Skeletal malformation can also be seen in the spine of the chest, which may result in back pain and deformed spine. This condition also causes damages to the joints with symptoms resembling rheumatoid arthritis. Patients may also develop muscle weakness and pain, which could lead to total immobilization.
20212	In more than 60% of patients with Alstrom's syndrome, heart failure occurs within the first few days or weeks after birth. However, in some cases, the onset of dilated cardiomyopathy is in adolescence or young adulthood. In all cases of Alstrom syndrome, light sensitivity and other vision problems occur. This usually appears after a year of birth, which progressively worsens until 20 years old. Almost half of patients with Alstrom experienced developmental delays and 30% had learning disabilities. All patients with Alstrom are clinically obese, which become apparent as early as 5 years old, but can also be seen in infants. Patients with severe cases of Alstrom's syndrome develop kidney problems, liver problems and progressive hearing loss. Some develop type 2 diabetes or insulin resistance.
20213	Alternating hemiplegia of childhood occurs on children 4 years old and below. It can be present in a moderate or severe form. Patients with moderate cases of AHC have a good prognosis. This condition is usually related to migraines, which is indicated by episodes that occur only at night. All cases of moderate AHC develop no neurological impairment. Paralysis, gait, mental impairment, excessive sweating, balance impairment and extreme changes in the patient's body temperature indicate the severe form of AHC. Some patients also develop movement disorders and seizures.
20214	Some of the symptoms of this sickness are: Dizziness or light-headedness, difficulty in sleeping, rapid pulse, confusion, coughing up blood, inability to walk in a straight line, or to walk at all, loss of appetite, shortness of breath with exertion, and nausea or vomiting.
20215	People who experience altophobia usually suffer from spinning sensations or vertigo, as they climb to higher places.
20216	This pulmonary disease is present in very early infancy. Infants usually become critically sick in the first days of life with harsh hypoxemia and pulmonary hypertension, although presentation has been stated at 6 weeks of life in an infant with a patchy distribution of disease. Majority of the patients with this pulmonary disease will have further linked anomalies of the cardiovascular, gastroinstestinal, urogenital, or musculoskeletal systems.
20217	Symptoms of the Alveolar Hydatid Disease include chest pain and discomfort, weight loss, coughing and jaundice. It may also manifest epilepsy and blindness including allergic rashes, anaphylaxis and fever if the brain is infested.
20218	Dry socket is a dental condition that sometimes happens after a tooth extraction. Among the symptoms include visible bone in the socket, pain that radiates from the socket, unpleasant taste in the mouth, swollen lymph nodes, and foul breath.
20220	Symptoms of extrinsic allergic alveolitis are categorized as acute, sub-acute and chronic based on the duration of the condition. In acute EAA, symptoms occur 4 to 6 hours after heavy exposure to the antigen. These symptoms include cough, chills, fever, malaise, dyspnea, headache and chest tightness. However, the symptoms usually resolve within 12 hours. In sub-acute EAA, patients develop fatigue, pleurisy, anorexia, dyspnea, weight loss and productive cough. While symptoms of sub-acute EAA are similar to the acute form, the symptoms of this type of condition last longer. In Chronic EAA patients, symptoms include progressive dypnea, weight loss, fatigue and dangerous onset of cough. Over 50% of patients experience clubbing, while others develop respiratory distress, inspiratory crackles and tachypnea. Removing exposure to antigen will only result in partial improvement.
20221	Symptoms includes chest pain, shoulder pain, shortness of breathing, fatigue, reoccuring bronchitis, coughing of blood, hoarseness of voice and swelling of the neck and face.
20223	Alzheimer's disease is divided into 4 stages with different symptoms for each stage. In the predementia stage, patients experience only mild cognitive difficulties. Other symptoms include short-term memory loss, semantic memory impairments and subtle executive problems. Depression and apathy may also occur. In the early stage, patients experience impairments in memory and learning. However, older memories are affected only slightly compared to learning new things and making new memories. In terms of language problems, shrinking vocabulary and decreased work frequency may occur. In the moderate dementia stage, patients slowly reduce the possibility of independence. Language difficulties become noticeable, and the ability to read and write are forgotten. Complex motor sequences are also affected, making patients lose their ability to perform daily activities. Long-term memory becomes impaired, while behavioral changes occur. Irritability, outbursts, crying, aggression and physical violence also occurs. 30% of Alzheimer's patients develop delusional symptoms. In the advanced stage of Alzheimer's, patients cannot perform the simplest tasks alone. Apathy, exhaustion and loss of verbal language also occur. Patients will also experience muscle deterioration and inability to feed oneself.
20224	Patients with Amaurosis usually experience total symptom onset within a few minutes. In extremely rare cases of Amaurosis, vision loss or stroke has resulted. Hypertension, diabetes and smoking are the greatest factors known to increase the risk of suffering from Amaurosis. This condition can also be a result of mitral valve surgery. Some patients of Amaurosis can occur in those with vitamin B1 (or Thiamin) deficiency caused by Thiamine-related Cerebrocortical Necrosis (CNN).
20225	Symptoms of an ambiguous genitalia includes an enlargement of the clitoris that may seem to appear as a small penis, concealment of the vagina due to a closed midline groove. It can also be a urethral opening near the scrotum or the absence of the testicles.
20226	Majority of people with amblyopia are not aware they are suffering from the condition until tested when they are older because the vision in the stronger eye is usually normal. However, severe cases of amblyopia may affect patients with visual disorders, such as poor depth perception. Patients with amblyopia suffer from low sensitivity to contrast, poor spatial acuity and serious deficits to vision, including reduced sensitivity to any kind of motion. These types of deficits usually affect only the amblyopic eye. Amblyopia patients also suffer from binocular vision problems, such as limited depth perception and difficulty seeing 3D images. However, perception of motion, size and perspective remains normal.
20231	The symptoms of American trypanosomiasis vary over the course of the disease. In the early stage, symptoms are usually mild and only local swelling at the infected areas occurs. As the condition progresses, chronic symptoms, such as intestine malformation and heart disease, occur. If left untreated, American trypanosomiasis can be fatal.
20232	Memory loss: The loss of ones ability to recall from their memory. It may be for a short period of time only or last long, even worse, permanently.
20233	Symptoms of the Amnesic Shellfish Poisoning includes distress in the gastrointestinal tracks, headache, dizziness, seizures, permanent short term memory loss and focal weakness.
20234	Symptoms of Amnetic Disorder includes memory loss and disturbances, decline in memory ability , lack of insight regarding their memory loss hence there is denial that there is something wrong with their memory.
20235	Patient of Amoebic dysentery may manifest mild to severe symptoms or sometimes no symptoms at all. Patient with symptoms will manifest nausea, loose stools, weight loss, abdominal tenderness and occasional fever. Rarely, the parasite will invade the body beyond the intestines and cause severe infection.
20236	It is applied when body part that has been completely or partially cut off, when there is bleeding (may be minimal or severe, depending on the location and nature of the injury), patient is experiencing pain (the degree of pain is not always related to the severity of the injury or the amount of bleeding), when there are Crushed body tissue.
20237	Symptoms of this disease depend on the organs that were affected. Symptoms include: Swelling of your ankles and legs, numbness or tingling in your hands or feet, weight loss, weakness, diarrhea, shortness of breath, harsh fatigue, and difficulty swallowing.
20238	The symptoms of the disease take years before they take effect. Among the signs of the disease are seizures, loss of control in the voluntary muscles, weakness, immobility and eventual paralysis.
20240	Symptoms typically do not progress until after age 50. Persons with ALS have a failure of muscle strength and coordination. This causes a person incapable to do habitual activities, such as going upward steps, getting out of a chair, or ingesting. Sometimes, breathing or swallowing muscles may be the first muscles affected.
20241	People with anal cancer may experience the following symptoms: Bleeding from the anal area, Pain or pressure in the anal area, itching or discharge from the anus, a lump or swelling near the anus, a change in bowel habits or change in the diameter of the stool, but sometimes, people with anal cancer do not show any of these symptoms.
20243	The major signs and symptoms of an anal fissure include: Pain or burning during bowel movements that eases until the next bowel movement, bright red blood on the outside of the stool or on toilet paper or wipes after a bowel movement, itching or irritation around the anus.
20244	Anal itching is often associated with some other symptoms in and around the anus such as soreness and burning sensation. Most of the time it typically goes away after a few months but can be persistent and can be a source of embarrassment.
20245	Symptoms include the following: respiratory distress, fainting, unconsciousness, flushed appearance, vomiting, itching, diarrhea, and abdominal pain.
20246	Symptoms includes pain in the abdomen, inflammation of the joints of occurrence of arthritis, occurrence of rashes and lesions and kidney complications.
20247	Anaphylaxis symptoms include respiratory distress, low blood pressure, polyuria, fainting, encephalitis, unconsciousness, flushed appearance, hives, swelling of the face, neck, lips and throat (known as angioedema), tears due to stress and angioedema, itching, anxiety, vomiting, diarrhea and abdominal pain. The time between allergen ingestion and Anaphylaxis symptoms occur vary depending on the amount of allergen consumed and individual reaction time. Symptoms of Anaphylaxis may appear instantly upon ingestion or may be delayed by several hours.
20249	Symptoms of Anasarca is the following: swelling or puffiness of the tissue under your skin, stretched or shiny skin, skin that retains a dimple after being pressed for several seconds, increased abdominal size.
20251	Symptoms of anemia can be vague and could go undetected for years. Patients with anemia usually report a fatigue or weakness during exercise, poor concentration and malaise. Severe anemia can produce shortness of breath, palpitations and increased cardiac output, which may lead to heart failure. Pallor is a good diagnostic sign of severe anemia. However, this condition is not always apparent. Other useful diagnostic signs include koilonychia and chelosis. Severe anemia in children may also result in behavioral disturbances as a result of impaired neurological developments during infancy. Such behavioral disturbances can be mistakenly diagnosed as attention deficit disorder.
20253	Symptoms of Pernicious anemia include anemia and anemia-related conditions such as shortness of breath, fatigue and pallor. It also causes tongue symptoms, including soreness, redness and burning of tongue. Patients of Pernicious anemia also experience loss of appetite, diarrhea, weight loss, constipation, abdominal pain, fever, unsteadiness, muscle spasms, fever, malaise, spasticity, weakness, jaundice, upset stomach, chest pain and rapid heartbeat. Other patients of Pernicious anemia experience megaloblastic anemia, movement disorders, personality changes and finger paresthesias (or burning sensations in fingers).
20258	Angelman Syndrome symptoms includes lack of or minimal speech, inability to walk, move or balance well, frequent smiling and laughter, frequent smiling and laughter, and developmental delays, such as lack of crawling or babbling at 9 to 12 months, and mental retardation.
20259	Among the symptoms associated with angina pectoris includes chest pain. This is often accompanied by fatigue, nausea, shortness of breath, anxiety, dizziness, and sweating.
20259	The usually symptom of this disease is chest pain that is experience behind the breastbone or somewhat to the left. The other symptoms that accompany angina pectoris are nausea, shortness of breath, fatigue, anxiety, sweating or dizziness. Majority people describe the pain as a kind of tightness or heaviness, squeezing pressure.
20260	Among the symptoms of this disease are stress, chest pain, and viselike squeezing sensations in the breastbone. Chest pains usually last for a few minutes. This disorder is common among the elderly.
20261	Symptoms include feeling of fullness in the abdomen or chest, weight loss, low-grade fever, night sweats, anemia and general feeling of discomfort. The peripheral lymph nodes may also become visibly enlarged and in some cases cause nerve damage to the feet and hands.
20264	Symptoms of Angiomatosis include high blood pressure, limb weakness, dizziness, walking and balancing problems, headaches, angioma, impaired vision and other vision problems, brain angioma, retinoangioma, pheochromocytoma, spinal cord angioma, hemangioblastoma, retinal lesions, angiomatosis and cerebellar hemangioblastoma.
20265	There is no concrete symptoms of this disease. Although, being a complication of diabetes, it follows the same pattern of symptoms as that of diabetes mellitus. Frequent urination or large amount of liquids, being always thirsty, stress and fatigue and other symptoms like pain in the head, eyes or other parts of the body.
20266	Angiosarcoma usually causes no symptoms and shows no signs during the early stages. However, as the tumor grows, it could cause swelling or lumps. It may later cause pain if the affected area is pressed on nerves and muscles.
20267	Symptoms of Anguillulosis include soft stool, abdominal pain and allergies.
20268	Found in the corners of the mouth, a patient with angular cheilitis may notice ulceration, tissue softness and tenderness, cracking and fissuring of the corners of the mouth, with redness and as well as drainage of pus.
20269	The primary sign of anhidrosis is the inability to sweat or sweating only in patches. Sometimes the unaffected areas compensate by producing too much perspiration. Other symptoms include dizziness, muscle cramps, flushing and little or no perspiration as well as heart palpitations.
20271	After a few hours of ingesting the infected larvae, people with Anisakiasis may experience nausea, vomiting and violent abdominal pain. Sometimes, the larvae can be coughed up. However, if the larvae passes the bowel, Anisakiasis sufferers may experience eosinophilic granulomatous, which may occur 1 day to 2 weeks after ingestion.
20272	Symptoms of Anisometropia includes Diplopia.
20273	Symptoms of an ankle fracture include the immediate throbbing pain, bruising and swelling, increase in pain, deformity, tenderness, inability to walk, protrusions, cuts, or puncture wounds by the bone fragments.
20274	The symptoms of an ankle sprain will greatly depend on its severity. Most often it causes painful swelling that is evident right after the injury. In severe conditions, the ligaments may be torn, making wit extremely difficult to move the feet.
20275	Ankylosing spondylitis usually occurs in young people, aged 15 to 30, with stiffness and chronic pain in the lower spine. Men are more affected by Ankylosing spondylitis than women are. Over 40% of Ankylosing spondylitis cases are associated with anterior uveitis that causes eye pains and increased light sensitivity. Other symptoms associated with Ankylosing spondylitis include fatigue and mouth ulcers. Pain can shift from one side of the spine to the other. Early symptoms may occur at extremely young age, around 3 years old, when the child experiences painful, recurring joints. This condition is usually mistaken for rheumatism. Ankylosing spondylitis can also be symptoms of Crohn's disease, ulcerative colitis, Reiter's disease and psoriasis.
20277	There are no specific signs or symptoms of Ankylostomiasis. However, intestinal inflammation and anemia (caused by iron or protein deficiency) may occur. When larvae attack the skin, it could cause intense, localized itching on the lower leg or foot, which may last for more than a week. Ankylostomiasis may also cause vomiting, diarrhea, constipation, ingestion, nausea and epigastric pains in early and later stages of the disease.
20278	Early signs of annular pancreas include abnormalities such as polyhydramnios, low birth weight, excess amniotic fluid and feeding intolerance after birth.
20281	Development of speech and motor functions could be delayed. Mental retardation and hyperactivity are common, but the degree may vary on a case-to-case basis. Some patients experience convulsions. Patients with Anonychia Microcephaly develop unusual motor abilities, ranging from clumsiness to spastic quadriplegia.
20286	Anorgasmia has three stages of symptoms. The first one is when a woman has never experienced orgasm. The second one is when the woman has reached orgasm but has trouble reaching climax. The third one is the situational anargasmia where the woman only has trouble reaching orgasm in certain situations.
20288	Symptoms of Anovolution often includes erratic menstrual cycle, amenorrhea and oligomenorrhea.
20289	Symptoms includes sudden seizures, myoclonic jerks where there is muscle spasms or twitches in the muscle, stiffness of the neck and sudden unconsciousness.
20290	A perceptible crack or pop sound can be heard on the onset of injury. Extensive swelling on the frontal knee area following a feeling of instability is often observed. The injured would not be able to fully straighten the leg. Cardinal signs of inflammation like pain, swelling, and tenderness will start to manifest immediately and progress.
20291	Anterior horn disease presents symptoms associated with the lower and upper motor neurone degeneration, such as brisk reflexes, spasticity, Babinski sign (for lower motor neurone), weakness and muscle atrophy (for upper motor neurone). Note that all muscle groups in the human body require both lower and upper motor neurones in order to function. These signs could occur in various muscle groups, including the torso, legs, arms and the bulbar region. Symptoms of Anterior horn disease usually appear in ages of 50 to 70. Symptoms include muscle wasting, progressive weakness, muscle fasciculations, arms and legs spasticity, stiffness and overactive reflexes of tendons. Other patients experience serious symptoms such as slurred speech, dragging foot or unilateral muscle wasting of the hands.
20292	The main symptoms of the disease are pain on the knees, cramps and tingling or burning sensation in the kneecap.
20294	The disease being treated keeps coming back even if the antibiotic taken is known to cure the disease.
20296	Antibiotic-associated diarrhea have a number of signs and symptoms that include watery diarrhea, abdominal pain and cramps, pus in the stool, nausea, dehydration and fever.
20297	The symptoms of the disease include lower abdominal cramps, frequent urges to defecate as well as watery diarrhea. Fatigue, weight loss and fever soon develop in the patient's body system.
20299	Antiphospholipid syndrome could cause blood clots in any organ and pregnancy related complication in the second or third trimester. In Antiphospholipid syndrome patients, the most common symptom is deep vein thrombosis of the lower extremities. Stroke is the most common arterial event. Some patients with Antiphospholipid syndrome experience migraines and headaches. Most APS patients experience low platelet count, livedo reticularis and heart valve disease. In 10% of Antiphospholipid syndrome patients, symptoms of multiple sclerosis may be present.
20300	Common characteristics of patients with Antisocial personality disorder include substance abuse, persistent lying or stealing, recurring difficulties with the law, persistent agitated feeling, disregard for the safety of self and others, inability to tolerate boredom and a history of childhood conduct disorders. Most Antisocial personality disorder patients show superficial charm, impulsiveness, recklessness, inability to make and keep friends, sense of extreme entitlement, lack of remorse for hurting others, aggressive and violent behavior, tendency to violate boundaries and rights of others, may it be legal, physical, sexual, emotional and property. They also have difficulties with authority figures.
20302	People with alpha-1 antitrypsin deficiency suffer from shortness of breath, rales and ronchi. They are also more prone to emphysema and liver disease.
20304	Symptoms of the Anuria includes failure to urinate, lack of appetite, vomiting, weakness and even sudden collapse of the person.
20305	If aortic aneurysms are still intact, they don't produce symptoms. However, as these aneurysms enlarge, back pain and abdominal pain may develop. Others experience compression of the nerve roots, which lead to leg numbness or pain. If left untreated, Aortic aneurysm could become progressively larger. However, the rate of enlargement may vary between patients. In rare cases, blood clots that line the aortic aneurysm could break off and lead to an embolus. To confirm Aortic aneurysm, medical imaging and physical examination is necessary.
20307	Patients with aortic coarctation develop arterial hypertension in their right arm with normal (or low) blood pressure in their lower extremities. Most patients with severe aortic coarctation have poor peripheral pulses in their "Femoral" arteries. If the aortic coarctation is located before the left "subclavian artery", patients will experience synchronous radial pulses in their left and right arms. There would be a radial-femoral delay between their right arms. However, the left arm would have no delay; instead, radial-femoral palpitations would occur. If the aortic coarctation is located after the left "subclavian artery", patients will experience synchronous radial pulses. In addition, radial-femoral delay will also be present in either arm.
20308	More than 95% of patients with Aortic dissection experience severe pain at sudden onset. Patients describe the condition as "stabbing, sharp and tearing in nature". Anterior chest pain is the most common complain associated with ascending aorta, while intrascapular pain (or back pain) is experienced with descending aortic dissections. Less common symptoms of Aortic dissection include cerebrovascular assident, cardiac arrest, paraplegia, congestive heart failure, syncope, peripheral neuropathy and sudden death. Blood pressure changes, myocardial infarction, pleural effusion and aortic insufficiency also occurs in most patients.
20309	When symptomatic, aortic stenosis can result to dizziness, syncope, angina and congestive heart failure. More symptoms may indicate a worse prognosis. Treatment needs replacement of the diseased valve with an artificial heart valve.
20310	Common symptoms associated with aortic valve regurgitation include weakness and fatigue, heart palpitations, fainting, chest pains, shortness or breath, irregular and rapid pulse, swollen ankles and feet.
20311	When aortic valve stenosis is symptomatic, patients may experience angina, dizziness, syncope (fainting spells) and congestive heart failure. If aortic valve is not replaced, congestive heart failure accounts to a two-year mortality rate of 50%, syncope accounts for a three-year mortality rate of 50% and angina has a five-year mortality rate of 50%. Aortic valve stenosis is associated with colon angiodysplasia. This condition also causes Von Willebrand disease.
20312	The most apparent effects of Apert syndrome is cranial malformations. Apert syndrome is characterized by a high and prominent forehead with flat posterior skull. When the suture of the skull closes prematurely, an increase in cranial pressure sometimes result in mental deficiency. However, not all patients with Apert syndrome experience this because some develop normal intelligence. Apert syndrome can also cause low-set ears, shallow bony orbits, broadly spaced eyes and concave or flat face due to the deficient growth in the bones of middle part of the face. The major features of Apert syndrome is the syndactyly of hands and feet. Patients usually develop fused fingers or toes with an equal amount on both sides. The most common occurrence of this fusion occurs in the three middle fingers. The thumbs and big toes are usually malformed and broad. As patients age, the joints will continue to grow, but will remain immovable.
20313	Impaired ability to use language includes difficulty to express one's self. The individual usually uses long sentences that do not make sense, uses gestures instead of words. They find it difficult to find words to say what they really mean to say. For example, instead of saying "chair" will say "where I sit".
20314	Patients with Aphthous stomatitis begin to experience a burning or tingling sensation at the site of the ulcer. After several days, this burning sensation usually progress and form a bump (or a red spot). Ultimately, this spot becomes an open ulcer. The Aphthous stomatitis appears as a yellow (sometimes, white) oval with an inflamed red border. A white halo or circle around the ulcer sometimes occurs. The yellow, grey or white area within the affected spot is due to the formation of fibrin layers, proteins involved in blood clotting. The ulcer may sometimes be accompanied with swelling lymph nodes under the jaw.
20315	Aphthous ulcers primary symptoms are the lesion growth on the mouth, usually in clusters. Other symptoms include listlessness, fever and swollen nymph nodes.
20317	Symptoms of Aplastic anemia include low white blood cell count (that leads to infection), low platelet count (that leads to bruising and hemorrhage) and anemia with pallor, malaise and other associated symptoms.
20318	Symptoms of infantile apnea include an abnormal discoloration of the skin, usually turning blue, an unusually slow heart beat known as bradycardia and a sudden stoppage of breathing when sleeping.
20319	Symptoms of postanesthetic apnea are similar to other types of apnea, with signs of breathing difficulties among others.
20320	Apocrine duct Occlusion starts with an intense itchy that could disrupt sleep. However, some cases are asymptomatic. Common signs include a darkened and thickened dry skin due to persistent scratching, dome-shaped small papules that affect hair follicles in the infected area and an obvious reduce in sweating in the affected area.
20321	Apparent mineralocorticoid excess can be seen after birth with low birth weight and postnatal failure to thrive. Most patients of AME experience hypertension, polydipsia and persistent polyuria. AME is characterized by hyporeninemia, hypokalemic alkalosis and undetectable serum concentrations of "aldosterone". Majority of Apparent mineralocorticoid excess patients develop hypertension even at a young age. End-organ damages can also occur in the heart, retina, kidney or central nervous system.
20322	Symptoms of acute appendicitis are classified into two - typical and atypical. Typical symptoms of acute appendicitis start with pain before localizing to the lower right side of the abdomen. As the inflammation progresses, the involvement of somatic nerves start. Along with this abdominal pain, other symptoms such as fever, nausea, vomiting and loss of appetite occur. Diagnosis is easy to make with typical symptoms and in turn, surgery is made earlier and prognosis is often less severe. With atypical symptoms, pain starts and stays in the right "iliac fossa" combined with diarrhea and micturition, if the inflamed appendix is in contact with the bladder. Diagnoses of atypical symptoms include ultrasound and CT scans. Surgical findings are usually more severe.
20323	When patients are born with a partial absence of this connector, one of the three parts of the small intestine called the ?jejuna? twists around the colon arteries, which causes blockage. As a result, vomiting, constipation and a swollen abdomen may occur.
20326	The most common sign of Arachnitis is the persistent and chronic pain in the lower limbs and lower back. Other symptoms include severe shooting pain, muscle cramps and spasms, uncontrollable muscle twitching, bizarre sensations and numbness, weakness or tingling in the legs. Severe cases of Arachnitis include intractable and constant pain, which could lead to disability.
20328	Symptoms of Contractural Beals Type Arachnodactyly may include one of the following skeletal abnormalities: ? Facial abnormalities ? Muscular hypoplasia ? Pectus Deformities ? Reduced Bone Mass (Osteopenia) ? Curvature of the spine (Scoliosis) ? Long and slender toes/fingers (Arachnodactyly) ? Crumpled appearance of abnormally shaped ear ? Congenital contractures due to delay in motor development
20330	Symptoms of Arachnoidal Fibroblastoma include raise intracranial pressure, which leads to sickness, headaches, vomiting and visual problems. Epileptic episodes as well as behavioral and personality changes are among the early signs of this condition. When the disease progress, it could cause paralysis on one side of the body. When the left part of the brain is affected, the patient may develop speech problems like slurring. When the tumor is located in the temporal lobe, memory loss and coordination problems may occur.
20331	Chronic pain is a usual symptom fro this disease also neuralgia. Because the disease affects the spinal cord lack of sensation and tingling in the extremities is felt. In cases where the spinal cord's lower area is affected bowel movement, sexual performance and the bladder are affected. Although arachnoiditis has no constant symptom, it usually affects the nerves connected to the lower back and the legs that results to back pain which increases as you move more, soreness in one or both legs or feet. Arachnoiditis symptoms also include headaches, blurry vision, faintness and vomiting.
20332	Here is a list of the known symptoms of Arakawa's Syndrome II: Megaloblastic anemia - reduced production of red blood because of the lack of vitamin B12 absorption, a rare blood disorder. Delay in physical and mental development Deficit in Methionine synthase Scoliosis - a state that presents lateral curvature of the spine. Retarded growth - growth rate is not enough for the normal rate. Fragile muscle tone liver is bloated spleen is bloated Seizures - unrestrained physical movements. Complications of Arakawa's syndrome II Production of red cell is reduced Learning disability - several developmental troubles hindering learning. Macrocytosis (erythrocyte) - unusual large red blood cell taking place primarily in anemias also referred to as megalocyte.
20333	Patient with ARDS will manifest dyspnea, tachypnea, pallor, and low oxygen saturation. This disease can lead to multiple organ failure due to low oxygen supply of the body.
20334	The symptoms of the disease include low blood cell count, and weakness. Patients also easily get bruised or bleed, and are prone to bacterial infections due to the insufficient white blood cells that are supposed to protect the body from harm.
20337	Elevated blood ammonia level Nausea/vomiting/queasiness Seizures or fits Unusual hair duct Rejection to eat Progressive exhaustion Liver is enlarged Liver fibrosis - unusual mass that is seen in the liver. delicate hair hair structure lumps Problem in eating Lowered body temperature or Hypothermia Respiratory alkalosis - caused by an increase gas exchange in the lungs related with severe anxiety or aspirin intoxication or metabolic acidosis.
20338	The most evident symptom of Argyria is grey or black staining of skin.
20339	Most people detect right away if an arm is broken since it comes with an excruciating pain following a loud snapping sound of the bone. Other symptoms include swelling, bruising, tenderness and deformity of the area as well as the inability to move the area with feeling severe pain.
20341	Among the prominent signs and symptoms of the progression of this disease includes subtle ventricular changes and arrhythmias. The involvement of both ventricular may possibly lead to heart failure and cardiomyopathy.
20342	The symptoms for this disease are as follows: a) Ventricular tachycardia - situation that is distinguished by a fast heart beat starting from the ventricles. b) Briefness of breath c) Left branch block dilated myocardiopathy d) Sudden heart attack e) Palpitations - every time an individual can feel their own heartbeat, and considers it to be unusual or strange. Therefore, palpitations can be utilized by patients to explain racing heartbeat, fast heart beat, deliberate heart beat, irregular heartbeat, and different arrhythmias.
20343	Symptoms include stomach pains, vomiting, dryness and tightness of the throat, cramps, sxcorciation, diarrhea, hoarseness and difficulty in speaking,convulsions, cramps, clammy sweats, collapsed and lightheadedness.
20344	Arterial tortuosity Artery is lengthened Arterial aneurysm Arterial stenosis Telangiectasia - a group of expanded vessels on the surface of the skin.
20345	Obstruction in the arteries of the heart may cause symptoms of heart attack including chest pain. Sudden numbness, dizziness and weakness are manifested if the arteries supplying the brain are affected like the carotid arteries in the neck. Leg pain when walking is often observed if the affected parts are the leg and arm arteries.
20346	It can occur in any part of the body including the brain, lung, spleen, kidney, liver, and spinal column; either on isolation or as part of another disorder causing symptoms including decrease of blood supply to the tissue (tissue ischemia), pain, impaired mobility, and bleeding.
20347	The known symptoms for AVM are hemorrhage or bleeding, seizures or unrestrained physical movements, headaches, neurological problems, paralysis, loss of speech, memory loss and vision loss.
20348	The known symptoms of Arteritis are fever, weight loss, fatigue and dispersed aches and pain.
20350	Children suffering from Still's disease experience stiffness of the joints. This pain is as well accompanied by red rashes and fever.
20352	Symptoms of septic arthritis include severe inflammation, pain, swelling, and redness in the joints. Septic arthritis most commonly affects the knees, shoulders, hips, elbows, wrists, and finger joints. Affected patients usually have difficulty, or experience severe pain, when trying to move the limb of the infected joints. Frequently, only one joint is infected; but in some cases, it may occur in more than one joint. At the onset, infected patients may also experience low grade fever and chills. If untreated, septic arthritis can destroy the joints completely within a short period of time.
20353	Thumb arthritis manifests with swelling and pain in the thumb and wrist, particularly while grasping or pinching. This symptom usually occurs first thing in the morning, and may persist for at least half an hour before the thumb loosens up. The pain may decrease mid-day, but then return with a dull ache at the end of the day or after vigorous use. A bump may also be observed at the affected joint In general, symptoms of thumb arthritis include: pain, stiffness, tenderness, and swelling at the base of the thumb; decreased strength while pinching or grasping objects; decreased range of motion; plus enlarged and bony appearance of the affected joint.
20355	There are several symptoms for this kind of diseases. Several of the common signs and symptoms are related with the shoulder's internal rotation malformation, elbow's extension and pronation malformation, wrist's volar and ulnar malformation, hand's fingers in fixed flexion and thumb-in-palm malformation, hip's (flexed, abducted and externally rotated, often dislocated), knee's flexion malformation and foot's clubfoot malformation. Problems might consist of scoliosis, lung hypoplasia resulting to respiratory complications, growth retardation, mid-facial hemangioma, facial and jaw malformations, respiratory complications, and abdominal hernias. Cognition and communication skills are generally normal.
20356	Similar to several additional hereditary disorders that concerns lipid metabolism, there are numerous types of MLD, which are late infantile, juvenile, and adult. 1. Late infantile type - which is the most familiar form MLD, affected children start having troubles walking later than the first year of life. Symptoms consist of muscle wasting and failing, muscle stiffness, developmental setbacks, progressive failure of vision resulting to loss of sight, seizures, damaged ingestion, paralysis, and dementia. Children may turn out to be comatose. Untreated, most children with this type of MLD die by the age of 5, regularly a lot earlier. 2. Juvenile type - beginning between 3-10 years of age regularly start by impaired school performance, mental weakening, and dementia and then build up symptoms like to the late infantile type but with slower development. Age of death is inconsistent, but usually within 10 to 15 years of symptom commencement. 3. Adult type - usually starts following the age 16 as a psychiatric disorder or progressive dementia. Adult-onset MLD develops more gradually than the late infantile and juvenile types, with a prolonged course of a decade or more. In unusual cases the body can compensate for the deficit and the person will show no signs.
20357	Symptoms of Asbestos Poisoning includes respiratory problems.
20358	The main symptom of asbestosis is usually the deliberate onset of shortness of breath on action. In severe, complex cases, this might result to respiratory malfunction. Coughing is not frequently a distinctive symptom, if not the patient has other, associated respiratory tract diseases. Individuals with wide work-related contact to the mining, manufacturing, handling or removal of asbestos are at possibility of rising asbestosis. There is also an augmented danger of lung cancer and mesothelioma. Asbestosis and lung cancer need extended exposure to asbestos. Though, cases of mesothelioma have been documented with even 1-3 months of exposure,[3][4] and only indirect exposure (throughout air ventilation system.) The majority cases of asbestosis do not show until 5-10 years following exposure to the material.
20359	Patients can stay asymptomatic for very long period of time. As larval phases pass through the body, they might cause visceral injury, peritonitis and swelling, growth of the liver or spleen, toxicity, and pneumonia. A heavy worm infestation might cause dietary deficit; other problems, occasionally deadly, consist of difficulty of the bowel by a bolus of worms that is practical mainly in children and difficulty of the bile or pancreatic canal. Over 796 Ascaris lumbricoides worms weighing up to 550 g [19 ounces] were recovered at autopsy from a 2-year-old South African girl. The worms had caused torsion and gangrene of the ileum that was inferred as the cause of death. Ascaris obtains most of its nutrients from the partly absorbed host food in the intestine. There is partial proof that it can also penetrate into the intestinal mucous membrane and feed on blood, although this is not its common basis of nutrition. As an effect, Ascaris disease does not create the anemia related with several other roundworm diseases.
20360	Persons who are suffering from ascending aortic dissection encounter sudden chest pain accompanied by cold sweat.
20361	Symptoms includes abdominal distensions, shortness of breathing because of the damage in the diaphram, leg swelling, bruising, fatigue and weight loss.
20362	Most infants born with ASD at birth do not exhibit any symptoms. In adults, the disease usually presents after the 30th year of life or even later. A heart murmur is the most common clinical presentation of ASD, and is usually detected accidentally during a routine check-up. Infants born with this genetic disease may not grow normally and suffer from poor appetites. Both infant and adult sufferers show signs of arrhythmias or heart failure. Long-standing ASD may manifest with fatigue, shortness of breath, leg/feet/abdomen swelling, as well as heart palpitations or skipped heart beats. If untreated, ASD may completely damage the patient's heart and lungs.
20363	The symptoms vary depending on the contributing organism. There are generally unclear legitimate symptoms lasting for hours or days. These are then followed by meningitis distinguished by headache, fever, stiff neck, photophobia, myalgia and drowsiness. A reaction may be there, which could recommend an exact virus for instance, zoster and varicella. Nonetheless, a non-blanching purpuric reaction is not related with meningitis and recommends complete bacterial disease.
20365	Here are the known sympyoms of Aspartylglycosaminuria: 1. Facial features are coarse 2. Malformation in the spine 3. Eye malformations 4. Behavioral troubles 5. Retardation mentally 6. Liver is bloated 7. Spleen is bloated 8. Nose is broad 9 Diarrhea 10. Increased urine aspartyglucosamine level
20366	Often exhibit an intense obsession with one or more than one particular topics. They appear not to understand, sympathize with or be sensitive to others' feelings. Having a hard time catching up with others' humor. Monotonous, harsh or unusually fast voice pattern when speaking. Poor coordination and clumsy movements. Continuously talking not minding if the other party is listening or wants to change subject. Lack of eye contact, hardly any facial expression and awkward body gestures.
20367	Sometimes a fungus ball in the liver does not cause any symptoms it is only seen when using a chest x-ray. Other symptoms are frequent coughing and even worse bleeding. For severe infection of Aspergillus in the lungs sometimes causes fever, cough, chest pain and breathing complexity. When it affects the deeper tissues it results to an individual to become very sick. Symptoms for this level of infection results to chills, shock, fever, delirium and blood clots. The affected person may also experience kidney failure, breathing difficulties and liver failure and death happens quickly. Itching and seldom pain is experienced results from Aspergillosis of the ear canal. It als causes fluid to drain during the night. Feeling of congestion happens resulting from Aspergillosis of the sinuses and other times discharge or pain.
20368	Here are the known symptoms of Asphyxia neonatorum: 1. Cyanosis - a severe state signifying a lack of oxygen in the blood supply. 2. Bradycardia - heart beat is decreases to less than 60 beats per minute. 3. Poor response to stimulus 4. Hypotonia - failing of the muscles. 5. Hypoxia - deprivation of oxygen supply to the different portions of the body. 6. Metabolic acidosis - reduced blood pH because of changes in respiration.
20372	Below are the known symptoms of Asthenia: Weakening of the body Absence/lack of energy Absence/lack of strength
20373	Several individuals distinguish asthma with chronic respiratory impairment and for others it is a discontinuous illness wherein episodes are triggered by environmental stimulants. Some of the symptoms below may be present in asthma.
20374	The symptoms of childhood asthma usually resemble those of adult asthma, including coughing, shortness of breath, wheezing, as well as chest congestion or tightness. In affected infants, the condition manifests with a rattly cough plus recurrent bronchitis. Childhood asthma inflames the airways, making them overly sensitive and prone to constricting or tightening when irritated.
20375	Symptoms of exercise-induced asthma may range from minor wheezing to severely troubled breathing during or after any form of exercise. Common symptoms, such as coughing, chest tightness, wheezing, chest pain, and shortness of breath, typically start within 5-15 minutes after exercise. Other symptoms of exercise-induced asthma include: poor athletic performance, fatigue during exercise, and long recovery time following an exercise.
20376	Astigmatism has the following distinguishing symptoms: blurry vision; visual field distortions; eyestrain or fatigue; headaches; plus a blurring of diagonal, horizontal, or vertical lines.
20377	Below are the known symptoms of Astrocytoma: Impaired/weakened balance Vomiting/nausea or queasiness Weight change Change in personality Behavior change Tiredness/weariness Headache Loss of desire for food
20378	Below are the known symptoms for Ataxia: Loss/failure of muscle control Poor/reduced muscle management Clumsiness Staggering Difficulty/troubles in pronouncing words Ataxia
20380	The most common symptoms of atelectasis are the following: a non-prominent cough; a very rare chest pain; difficulty of breathing; the saturation of oxygen is low; fever (which is a much debated symptom as there is still no evidence that would support this although it is already accepted as a possible symptom); pleural effusion (the transudate form); late sign of cyanosis; and an increased heart rate. X-rays could easily diagnose this condition.
20380	Some symptoms of atelectasis includes cough (but not prominent). chest pain (on rare occasions), breathing difficulty, low oxygen saturation, fever-debatable, pleural effusion, cyanosis, and increased heart rate.
20381	The symptoms for infants who have this disorder have a tapered chest, very short legs and arms and a rounded, major abdomen. Cleft palate is also a symptom for this disorder, distinguishing facial features, clubfoot, and commonly positioned thumbs or hitchhiker thumbs. The symptoms of atelosteogenesis, type 2 are related to those of skeletal disorder referred to as distrophic dysplasia but comparing to the other skeletal disorder atelosteogenesis, type 2 is more severe.
20382	Symptoms includes pain in the chest, shortness of breathing and heart attack.
20385	The most common symptoms of Athlete's foot are flaking, scaling and itching in the affected area. Cracked skin or blisters can also happen, which results to exposed raw tissue, pain and inflammation. Accompanying the fungal infection is a bacterial infection where oral antibiotics are needed. The infection can scatter to other portions of the body like the armpits, elbows, knees and the groin and commonly is referred with another name once it scatters terms like tinea corporis when it infects the body or limbs and tinea cruris for the infection in the groin.
20387	Vasoconstriction and intensifies pruritus results from rubbing the skin and causes weeping cuts and erythematous. The lesions that resulted from this, becomes lichenified and scaly. The parts where it occurs are usually in the areas of extension and flexion like the neck, popliteal folds, antecubital fossa and at the back of the ears. Individuals affected by Atopic Dermatitis are prone to abnormally severe viral infections, fungal and bacterial infections in the skin, visual complexities and allergic contact dermatitis.
20389	Thumping sensation in the chest as if the heart is racing clinically termed as palpitations. Fainting sensation or lightheadedness. Shortness of breath especially when lying down flat. Swollen ankles and feeling exhausted for a long period of time.
20390	Symptoms for Atrial Flutter includes palpitations or the rapid and unusual fast beating or pounding in the chest,angina pectoris or heart pains, a feeling of fainting, light headedness, shortness of breath, weakness, anxiety and fluttering in the chest.
20392	For children: feeling tired after extreme physical activity frequent respiratory tract infections growth retardation if the patient has large shunts seldom development of heart failure, pulmonary hypertension, infective endocarditis For adults: fatigability dyspnea on exertion For patients that have large shunts a low-pitched diastolic mumble is noticed at the lower left sternal margin, which becomes more evident on stimulation. Other signs are broadly split S 2 resulted from the late closing of the pulmonic valve, and a systolic tick or delayed systolic mumble at the apex caused by mitral valve prolapse that rarely affects older children with ASD. Older patients with huge, uncorrected abnormalities and permanent pulmonary artery hypertension, auscultation shows an emphasize dS2. A pulmonary discharge tick and a clear S4 may also appear. Clubbing and cyanosis turn out to be obvious; syncope and hemoptysis may happen with rigorous pulmonary vascular ailment.
20393	Atrioventricular canal defect often manifests with dyspnea (or breathing difficulty), appetite loss, poor weight gain, and cyanosis or bluish discoloration in the skin and lips. Congestive heart failure symptoms may also appear, including: weakness; fatigue; cough and wheezing; edema in the legs, ankles, feet, and abdomen; high fluid retention leading to sudden weight gain; lethargy or decreased alertness; and irregular heartbeat. Complete atrioventricular canal defect usually presents with symptoms in the first few weeks of life; whereas partial atrioventricular canal defect may not manifest until the second or third decade of life.
20395	Genital symptoms: itching, dryness, burning, pressure, soreness, thick yellow white discharge, infection, malodorous discharge, painful sexual intercourse and bleeding after intercourse. Sores and cracks may also happen. Urinary symptoms: blood in the urine, painful urination, increased frequency of urination, incontinence and augmented probability and incidence of infections.
20397	Attachment disorder comes in two forms, inhibited and disinhibited. Some patients will exhibit symptoms of only one type; whereas most patients exhibit signs of both. Children with inhibited attachment disorder reject relationships with virtually everyone around them. Common signs of inhibited attachment disorder are: shunning affection from parents/caregivers; avoiding eye contact or any physical contact; difficulty being comforted; preference of being alone; and failure to communicate with others. Children with disinhibited attachment disorder may form attachments with others, but only in shallow or inappropriate forms. Signs of this type include: seeking comfort from strangers as opposed to showing anxiety towards strangers; exaggerated needs for help in doing simple tasks; inappropriate childish behavior; and constant anxiety. Other non-specific symptoms include: aggression, rage, lying, stealing, hoarding food, nonstop chatter, etc.
20398	Common symptoms of ADHD: distractibility troubles in focusing and concentrating short term memory loss procrastination troubles managing belongings and ideas tardiness being impulsive executing plans weakly Not all people with AHDH exhibit these symptoms some exhibit the symptoms but it does not affect the person's work or lifestyle. Symptoms do not become evident during childhood but it can become evident as they grow. In children with ADHD, hyperactivity is common but it disappears during adulthood but children continue to have troubles in focusing throughout their lives.
20399	Symptoms include difficulty in repeating back words and phrases without comprehension or the echolalia, re-auditorizatioin, unintelligible speech, difficulty memorizing names and places including words and number sequence and delay in the speech and language.
20400	People suffering from APD have trouble focusing and remembering orally presented information, seem to have poor listening skills, do not like noisy places and ask for more time to understand information.
20401	An impaired social skill marked by failure to respond to own name, resists cuddling and hugging, poor eye contact, and prefers to play alone is noticeable. An autistic child starts talking later than a normal child; manifesting a singsong voice or robot-like speech. They tend to repeat words or phrases they hear but actually understand how to use them. They can be unusually sensitive to light, touch and sound. Tendency to perform repetitive movements like rocking and hand-flapping.
20402	Anemia Hemolytic anemia A - state that is distinguished by anemia because of the red blood cell's destruction.
20405	Blood calcium level is low Blood phosphate level is low Hypoparathyroidism Lack/absence of tooth enamel Hair loss Piece of de-pigmented skin Corneal dystropathy Sexual growth fails Yeast infection in mouth Yeast infection in nails Mal-absorption Disease in the liver Insulin-dependent diabetes
20407	The symptoms of the illness include pounding headache, sweating, nasal congestion, slow pulse rate, restlessness and blotching of the skin. Masses meanwhile develop on around the nerves located at the spinal cord which hinder the blood to pass through, causing the pressure.
20408	Symptoms of Avascular necrosis depends on what part of the body is affected with the disease. Avascular Necrosis in the hip may manifest through feeling pain in the groin towards to the thigh and knee, while avascular necrosis in the shoulder may involve pain that usually felt in the head of the upper arm bone.
20409	Avian influenza has an undetermined incubation period in humans. Typically, the illness begins to manifest 1-5 days after exposure to the bird flu virus. Classic signs of avian influenza include: coughing, fever, sore throat, and muscle aches. In some cases, infected humans will develop a mild eye infection called conjunctivitis. In rare instances, humans may develop potentially fatal complications from avian influenza, including viral pneumonia and acute respiratory distress.
20410	Individuals with avoidant personality disorder are engrossed with their own shortcomings, which causes them to be distant with others in the thought that they will be rejected. Often easily hurt by criticism and disapproval, they avoid activities or occupations that involve getting in touch and communication with other individuals. As a result they tend to be antisocial and form relationships with other only after being assured that they won't be rejected.
20411	The symptoms presented by axillary hyperhidrosis are dripping sweat in the armpits, and foul order usually resistant to deodorants is present. Men suffering from this condition have to change shirts 2-3 times a day since their odor can be easily distinguished by the people around them.
20413	The symptoms includes infertility in male.
20415	Also called "Malaria of the North East", Babesiosis triggers symptoms very similar to Malaria. For those with mild cases of Babesiosis, they experience anemia (low blood) and mild fever. In serious cases, anemia can become severe and fever can go up to 40░C with chills. Some patients even experience organ failure. Unfortunately, Babesiosis can go unnoticed because it could cause non-specific illnesses and other severe diseases. However, unlike the "Plasmodium parasite" that causes malaria, the parasites of Babesia do not affect the liver. Severe cases of Babesiosis usually occur with the extremes - either extremely young or very old. However, it may also occur in people with other medical conditions, such as spleen cancer or immunodeficiency. Babesiosis may also occur in normal individuals, regardless of age.
20416	Baby acne appears as small reddish bumps on the cheeks, chin, and forehead of newborn infants. The condition first manifests within 3-4 weeks after birth, and may appear more distinctive when the affected infant is crying. Typically, baby acne resolves or disappears within three months from onset.
20417	Symptoms of baby blues includes sudden mood swings, euphoria, crying, impatience, anxiety, low self esteem, vulnerability, intense sadness, increased sensitivity, irritability and restlessness.
20418	The signs of baby bottle tooth decay are carries and eventual cavities present in the front teeth.
20419	Persons with BA usually experience the development of red nodules in the skin, purple lichenoid plaques, as well as ulcers that lead to swelling and irritation. Internal body organs such as the liver and spleen are greatly affected.
20420	Among the symptoms of back curves is pain in the back bone, stress, and a distinct S or C shape of the back.
20421	The symptoms of back pain typically vary in intensity and severity, ranging from mild to severe. Back pain presents with intense aches, soreness, and varying degrees of pain felt in the back region.
20422	Symptoms includes fever, chilling, malaise, pain in the abdomen, diarrhea, anxiety, shortness of breathing, vomitingand confusion.
20424	The symptoms normally start a few hours to few days following consumption and basing on the agent involved, the symptoms are as follows: Nausea Abdominal pain Vomiting Diarrhea Gastroenteritis Fever Headache or fatigue Permanent health recovery happens in most cases after a period of acute discomfort and illness. However, it can also result to permanent health damage or death to individuals who have poor immune system, like infants, elderly and pregnant women or fetuses. Reactive arthritis results from bacterial food poisoning that occurs one to three weeks afterward. Infections from Vibrio vulnificus that can be found in oysters or crabs can affect individuals who have liver disease susceptibly. Usually food poisoning results form uncooked and unclean food. Symptoms of Creutzfeldt-Jacob disease is acquired typically from eating beef from animals that as bovine spongiform encephalopathy (BSE or most commonly known as mad cow disease) is different from bacterial food poisoning. It appears after a few years and after the symptoms appear the disease becomes deadly. Food poisoning obtained from reef fish or other animals is referred to as Tetrodotoxin poisoning it rapidly displays trouble in breathing and numbness and often deadly.
20425	Below is the top list of symptoms of Bacterial gastroenteritis: Nausea Vomiting Diarrhea Pain in the abdomen Weakness Loss of appetite Fever Tiredness Muscle aches Headache Dehydration
20426	The most common meningitis symptom is headache. Over 85% of people suspected with meningitis experience severe headaches. Around 80% of meningitis patients experience neck stiffness or "nuchal rigidity". Three common diagnostic signs of meningitis, which exist in 40% of patients with infectious meningitis, are fever, altered mental status and neck rigidity or being unable to move the neck forward. Neck rigidity is usually associated with patients lying supine, both knees and hips flexed. If pain is educed when knees are extended passively, this is a sign of neck (or "nuchal") rigidity. Other symptoms associated with this disease include inability to bear bright lights (photophobia), inability to withstand loud noises (phonophobia), seizures and irritability. In small children with meningitis, delirium occurs. For infants age 0 to 6 months, swelling of soft spots may occur. With meningococcal meningitis, which is caused by the Neisseria meningitidis bacteria, a common symptom is a rapidly spreading rash that is preceded by a plethora of other symptoms.
20428	Individuals infected with bacterial vaginosis will notice a grayish-white discharge with a foul fish-like odor; usually obvious after sexual intercourse. Vaginal itching will occur in addition to painful urination. In some cases, light vaginal bleeding may occur in between menstrual periods.
20429	Bad breath is itself a symptom. It usually manifests as an unpleasant smell or repulsive odor from an individual's mouth or oral cavity. Bad breath can be detected when an affected individual speaks or breathes close to another person.
20431	The symptoms of the illness include redness and excess sweating of the cheeks. This usually occurs when the person eats, thinks and sees certain food that causes him to crave and drool.
20432	Baker's cyst manifests with a distinctive bulging or swelling behind the knee and sometimes in the leg, intense knee pain, and stiffness in the affected limb.
20434	Symptoms includes inflammation and swelling of the penis glans.
20435	The most common symptoms of Balantidiasis: Asymptomatic Fever Nausea Vomiting Abdominal pain Bloody diarrhea Intestinal ulcers
20436	Permanent baldness is characterized by permanent hair loss. The most common type of permanent hair loss is male-pattern baldness (or androgenetic alopecia), which occurs in males. Very rarely, it may also affect females (female-pattern baldness or androgenetic alopecia). Permanent baldness may manifest early, often in the second decade of life. Another form of permanent hair loss is called cicatricial alopecia, wherein the hair follicle is inflamed, becomes damaged, and is eventually scarred. The latter is linked to symptoms of mild itching and pain. Temporary hair loss, on the other hand, typically appears as small, round, and smooth patches on the scalp. In some cases, it may cause hair loss in every part of the body (i.e. alopecia totalis); but typically, this condition is limited to the scalp. Before the actual hair loss, the patient may experience soreness and itching in the affected areas. Other forms of temporary hair loss are telogen effluvium, in which hair thinning occurs unexpectedly; and traction alopecia, in which hair loss occurs because of frequent pulling from the scalp.
20436	Permanent baldness is characterized by permanent hair loss. The most common type of permanent hair loss is male-pattern baldness (or androgenetic alopecia), which occurs in males. Very rarely, it may also affect females (female-pattern baldness or androgenetic alopecia). Permanent baldness may manifest early, often in the second decade of life. Another form of permanent hair loss is called cicatricial alopecia, wherein the hair follicle is inflamed, becomes damaged, and is eventually scarred. The latter is linked to symptoms of mild itching and pain. Temporary hair loss, on the other hand, typically appears as small, round, and smooth patches on the scalp. In some cases, it may cause hair loss in every part of the body (i.e. alopecia totalis); but typically, this condition is limited to the scalp. Before the actual hair loss, the patient may experience soreness and itching in the affected areas. Other forms of temporary hair loss are telogen effluvium, in which hair thinning occurs unexpectedly; and traction alopecia, in which hair loss occurs because of frequent pulling from the scalp.
20437	Liver is enlarged Spleen is enlarged Fractures or injuries Low blood immunoglobulin level Impaired immunity
20439	Ballooning mitral valve syndrome is asymptomatic and harmless in most cases. However, there are cases where the disease progresses with symptoms such as: arrhythmia or irregular heartbeats; a feeling of lightheadedness or dizziness; shortness of breath and breathing difficulties; fatigue and weakness; as well as chest pains that are not related to heart attack or any coronary heart condition. These symptoms are usually mild at the onset and develop gradually though time.
20441	Blood in vomit Melena Weakness Flatulence Diarrhea Abdominal pain Abdominal distress Vague indigestion Nosebleed Pallor Mild jaundice Brown skin pigmentation Sallow skin Liver is enlarged Spleen is enlarged Anemia Flapping hand tremor Muscle wasting Ascites Swelling Leukopenia Cirrhosis of the liver Portal vein hypertension increased
20442	Iron deposits in liver Asymptomatic Liver cirrhosis Impaired liver function Liver is enlarged Iron deposits in spleen Iron deposits in bone marrow
20443	The symptoms of barber's itch vary according to the type of infection. If affecting the upper part of the hair follicle (i.e. superficial folliculitis), the condition manifests with: itchiness or tenderness in the affected area; clusters of tiny reddish bumps around the hair follicles; and blisters filled with pus that break open and crust over. In barber's itch affects the deeper layers of the skin surrounding the hair follicle or the entire hair follicle itself, it presents with the following signs: the appearance of enlarged or swollen bumps in the affected area; intense pain; pus-filled blisters; and possible scarring when the infection resolves.
20445	The list below is the known symptoms of Bardet-Biedl syndrome, type 1: Obesity Short stature Mental deficiency Low verbal I.Q. Low performance or I.Q. Inappropriate mannerisms Visual impairment Retinal dystrophy Myopia Astigmatism Nystagmus Glaucoma Cataracts Aphakia Retinitis pigmentosa Take note that the symptoms might not be seen by patients but by physicians or medical experts.
20446	The list below is the known symptoms of Bare lymphocyte syndrome: Persistent diarrhea Malabsorption Mucocutaneous candidiasis Upper respiratory tract bacterial infection Lower respiratory tract bacterial infection Failure to thrive Fatigue Take note that not all the symptoms is evident to the patient other symptoms can be determined by a physician only.
20447	Persistent diarrhea Malabsorption Mucocutaneous candidiasis Upper respiratory tract bacterial infection Lower respiratory tract bacterial infection Failure to thrive Fatigue Viral infections Fungal infections
20448	Asymptomatic Cough Wheezing Nose irritation Asymptomatic Cough Wheezing Nose irritation
20450	Most individuals with Barlow's syndrome never develop symptoms, not even a heart murmur. The condition is considered harmless in most cases. If patients do develop symptoms, they usually come in the form of a heart murmur, a characteristic clicking sound heard through a stethoscope, mitral regurgitation, shortness of breath, dizziness, rapid and irregular heartbeat, chest pains, and other mild symptoms.
20451	Symptoms of Barmah Foret virus includes flu-like symptoms like chilling, fever, muscle ache, joint pain and rashes.
20452	Barotitis media can affect one or both ears. Common symptoms include: mild ear discomfort or pain; sensation of fullness or stuffiness in the ears; slight temporary hearing loss; ringing in the ears; and dizziness. In severe or prolonged cases, affected individuals may suffer from severe middle ear pain, intense pressure, moderate to severe hearing loss, and even bleeding in the affected ear. In addition, sever barotitis media may also cause some complications, including a ruptured eardrum, ear infections, or complete hearing loss.
20453	Barotrauma may cause damage in the tissues of the paranassal sinuses, lungs, middle ear, eyes, and skin. Common symptoms of barotrauma include: chest pain, ear pain, ear infection, hearing loss, sinus pain, nose bleeds, stroke-like symptoms, mental problems, fits, and headache. In diving cases, barotrauma may cause lung damage during rapid ascent where the lung expands with increasing pressure.
20454	The normal pink color of the tissue lining the lower esophagus changes into salmon color. Difficulty in swallowing is often experienced due to narrowing of the esophagus. Bleeding is indicated through red-tinged vomit, blood that looks like ground coffee; black-colored or blood-tinged stool. An unexpected drop in weight can be expected.
20455	GERD (gastroesophageal reflux disease) causes Barrett's syndrome. However, not all GERD patients develop this disease. Studies show that there is a relationship between chronic heartburn and the development of Barrett's syndrome. Sometimes, patients with Barrett's may show no signs of heartburn at all. These patients could have a damaged esophagus due to swallowing an acidic substance like lye. Warning signs that a person has Barrett's esophagus include vomiting blood, trouble swallowing, frequent, painful and longstanding heartburn, pain under the breastbone and sudden weight loss because eating and digesting food can be painful.
20456	Skeletal myopathy Delayed growth Endocardial fibroelastosis Heart is enlarged Low level of white blood cells Problems skeletally Increased urine level of 3-methylglutaconic acid Increased urine level of 2-ethyl-hydracrilic acid
20457	In most cases, Bartholin cyst is often small and unnoticeable. However, it can grow and expand into an obvious lump which may be painless and tender. Bartholin cyst can also become infected, producing the following symptoms: discomfort while sitting or walking, fever, pain during sexual intercourse, pain in the lump, plus abscess on the vaginal opening.
20458	Symptoms for this medical condition include the formation of a tender lump on develops on either side of the vaginal opening. This may also include fever and pain during sexual intercourse.
20461	Basal cell cancer is most evident on parts of the body that are exposed to sunlight. It has been commonly observed on the head and neck areas, as well as on the trunk and legs to a lesser degree. It may also develop on other parts of the body that don't typically get any sun exposure. Visible signs of basal cell cancer are: the appearance of a waxy or pearly white bump on the ears, neck, and face; the formation of a large scaly, flat, and brownish patch on the chest or back area; and, in some cases, the appearance of a whitish waxy scar. The waxy bump characteristic of basal cell cancer often shows noticeable blood vessels, and may either bleed or form a depression in its center. In individuals with darker skin coloring, the patch may be brownish or black. The visible patch of basal cell cancer patients can also increase in size, up to 10-15 centimeters in some cases.
20463	Psychiatric symptoms and behavioral and personality changes which results to an increased stress to the patient and the care giver so extra care is needed. For psychiatric symptoms it must not be sought as a peripheral feature of a movement disorder rather embodies essential and inherent features of the disorder and may even symbolize major features of the medical syndrome.
20464	Basal joint arthritis causes debilitating pain, swelling, decreased strength, and diminished range of motion in the affected hand, particularly in the wrist and basal thumb joints. An affected patient will find it difficult to do simple tasks, such as grasp objects, turn door knobs, or open jars.
20465	Headache Headache is often followed by symptoms such as: Double vision Vertigo Poor muscular coordination Prodromal visual loss Dysarthria Damaged capability to manage charitable movements Vertigo Tinnitus Finger paresthesia Toe paresthesia Consciousness trouble Fainting Severe headache Throbbing headache Occipital headache Vomiting
20466	The signs of the illness are the failure to thrive, irregular-shaped red blood cells and fatty, foul-smelling stools. These symptoms can bring about extreme pain on the patient, and may as well cause anomalies in the central nervous system.
20467	Premature symptoms of this disorder commonly come into view about ages 4-10, with slow beginning of vision complications, or seizures or fits. Early signs include: Behavior changes Personality changes Recurring speech or echolalia Gradual learning or regression Stumbling Clumsiness Gradual head development in the infantile form Poor movement in lower extremities such as legs and feet Reduced body fat and muscle mass Curving of the spine Hyperventilation and/or breath-holding spells Teeth grinding Constipation As time passes, affected children undergo mental injury, deterioration seizures/fits, and progressive failure of sight, speech and motor skills. Batten Disease is life preventive ailment life anticipation differs basing on the kind or deviation.
20468	Individuals with BDD have an exaggerated or distorted view of how they look. They are obsessed with physical characteristics or perceived flaws in their appearance, and consider themselves disfigured or ugly. Common signs of body dysmorphic disorder include: frequently comparing one's looks with that of others; repeatedly checking one's appearance on mirrors or reflective surfaces; refusing to be photographed; poor posture to hide a real or imagined defect; wearing excessive clothing or makeup to hide perceived defects; elaborating grooming rituals; constantly seeking reassurance about perceived flaws; feelings of anxiety, insecurity, and self consciousness; as well as social phobia resulting from the imagined defect. Most people with BDD are obsessed about their body's size, shape, and symmetry, as well as skin characteristics, body or facial hair, and breast size, among others.
20470	Occurring along the toenails and fingernails are Beau's lines. Spanning its entire breadth, the grooves extend across the nail plate. Determining how much time has elapsed since the line was formed, it is possible to measure the distance from the area where the cuticle is seen and where the nail originates (the proximal nail fold) to the leading edge of the Beau's line.
20471	Symptoms include the slow progression of muscle weakness. This causes difficulty in performing muscle skills such as running, hopping, and jumping. A progressive difficulty in walking may also be experienced, coupled with frequent falling. There may also be deformities of the skeleton, specifically the chest and back (scoliosis), and of the muscles, with contractures of heels and legs, and pseudohypertrophy of calf muscles. Other symptoms include non-progressive cognitive dysfunction, fatigue, and heart disease. People with Becker's muscular dystrophy typically experience progressive weakness of the leg and pelvis muscles, which is associated with the wasting of muscle mass. Muscle weakness also occurs in other areas such as the arms and neck, but not as noticeably severe as in the lower half of the body. The patient's calf muscles initially enlarge during the ages of 5-15 (which is how the body attempts to compensate for loss of muscle strength), but the enlarged muscle tissue is eventually replaced by fat and connective tissue (pseudohypertrophy) as the legs become less used due to the use of a wheelchair). Muscle contractions also occur in the legs and heels, causing inability to use the muscles because of shortening of muscle fibers and fibrosis of connective tissue. Bones may develop abnormally, causing deformities in the skeletal structure the of the chest and other areas. Cardiomyopathy, the damage to the heart, does not occur as commonly with this disorder as it does with Duchenne's muscular dystrophy. Cognitive problems may accompany the disorder, but they are not an inevitable symptom and do not worsen as the disorder progresses.
20473	The main symptoms for the disorder are an abnormally large body mass, an enlarged tongue, embryonic tumors and renal problems. Growth rate also slows down as the patient reaches six to eight years old.
20474	The primary symptom of bed-wetting is involuntary urination at night. It usually occurs in children who have not yet undergone full toilet training, usually at 2-4 years old. Children aged 5 and older usually learn to control their bladder. In some cases, bed-wetting may lead to rashes on the child's genital area or botton.
20475	Small, itchy red bumps known as papules or wheals appear in the site that has been bitten by the bug. They appear in groups of small, swollen pus-filled sacs; Blister-like skin inflammation; Skin rashes resembling hives, sometimes occurring in a line on the body.
20476	An area of superficial red skin develops which can be itchy, warm, and spongy or firm when touched. Left untreated, this red skin will develop into an open sore resembling a blister or an abrasion showing red or purple discoloration in the surrounding tissues. As the condition worsens, deep, crater-like wound develops followed by large-scale skin loss involving damage to muscle, bone, and even tendons and joints. This condition is more at risk to developing dangerous infections.
20477	The site of the sting will become itchy, feel hot along with slight pain. A red lump will develop around the sting. In some cases, bacterial skin infection may start during the first 12-36 hours. Allergic reaction may occur involving certain parts of the body away from the site of the sting such as entire body itchiness, breathing difficulty, swelling of mouth or throat, chest pain, weakness or fainting, and anxiety.
20478	The symptoms of Behcet's syndrome all depend on the affected area of the body. Behcet's syndrome involves inflammation of many areas. These areas include the arteries that deliver blood to the body's tissues, and it can also affect the veins that take the blood back to the lungs to replenish the oxygen supply. Other areas of body that can be affected by the inflammation of Behcet's syndrome include the retina, brain, joints, skin, and bowels.
20479	Patients with Behr's Syndrome experience impaired vision, loss or reduction of coordination, and may have an inability to control any voluntary movements. These symptoms usually appear at the onset of infancy or early childhood. There may also be mental deficiency, optic atrophy, and rapid involuntary eye movements or eye twitching. Symptoms include an increasing loss of vision or blind spots where there was previously normal sight. This degeneration of eyesight is particularly prevalent in males affected with Behr's Syndrome. Unusual foot reflexes (a positive Babinski sign) may also be experienced by the patient when the sole is stimulated. Increasing tremors in both hands are also symptoms of this disease. It is associated with ataxia, spasticity, mental retardation, and posterior column sensory loss. Successful treatments of hand tremors using deep brain stimulation (DBS) of the ventral intermediate thalamic nucleus (VIM) have been reported. There have been cases that indicate that deep brain stimulation of the ventral intermediate nucleus is adequate as an operative intervention. It has been known to help reduce tremors even in patients with complicated movement disorders brought about by the disease.
20480	Bejel affects the skin, bones, and mucous membranes of the mouth. It usually starts in childhood as a small patch of mucus, often on the inside of the mouth, followed by the appearance of raised, eroding lesions on the arms, legs, and torso. Bone infection, or periostitis (inflammation) of develops later, mainly seen in the legs. Soft gummy lumps, or gummas, may appear on the nose and soft palate (roof of the mouth) in later stages of the disease.
20482	Patients with benign astrocytoma usually experience headaches, mental changes, increased irritability, and emotional instability. They may also undergo reduced mental activity and may have increased forgetfulness and confusion. There may also be a loss of initiative, loss of spontaneity, and an impaired ability to control voluntary movements. The patient may also undergo symptoms such as lethargy, stupor, nausea, vomiting, slowed heartbeat, incontinence, and paralysis. Astereognosis and aphasia may also be involved. Some patients present themselves with complaints of facial pain and facial numbness, coupled with rapid involuntary eye movements. In almost half of the cases, the first symptom of an astrocytoma, whether benign or malignant, is the onset of seizure, either focal or generalized. Between 60 to 75% of patients will experience recurrent seizures in the course of their illness. Headache and signs of increased intracranial pressure (resulting to headache and vomiting) usually present late in the disease course. In younger patients, the tumor is usually located in the cerebellum and will present with some combination of vision deterioration (uncorrectable by glasses), instability in walking, unilateral ataxia, and signs of increased intracranial pressure (resulting to headache, vomiting). Children with astrocytoma usually have decreased memory, attention span, and motor abilities, but their intelligence, language, and academic skills remain unaffected. When metastasis occurs, it can spread via the lymphatic system, causing death to the patient, even when the primary tumor is well controlled.
20483	People affected by this condition often display general weakness and reduced strength and endurance of the muscles. Depending on the underlying cause, different sets of muscles may be involved. Infants with hypotonia often display poor suckling and chewing, an inability to lift their head, rolling to move around instead of crawling, physical passivity, and a weak cry. Often, the child will feel like a sack of gelatin when you pick him up because he tends to slide out of your hands. Also, when the mouth muscles are affected, drooling and speech difficulties can occur in young children. Patients may also experience hypermobility of their joints, enabling them to bend their fingers far back. Children with hypotonia often find it comfortable to sit in the cross-legged position and other painful or contortionist looking postures. Other symptoms include poor reflexes, developmental delay, and constipation for those whose bowel muscles are involved. Skeletal abnormalities are also associated with many forms of BCH.
20484	Symptoms may include involuntary winking or squinting of one or both eyes, progressive difficulty in keeping the eyes open, and sensitivity to light. Generally, the spasms occur during the day, disappear in one's sleep, and reappear after waking. As the condition progresses, the spasms may become more intense, forcing the eyelids to remain closed for long periods of time, causing substantial visual disturbance or functional blindness. Important to note is the fact that the blindness is caused solely by the uncontrollable closing of the eyelids and not by any dysfunction of the eyes. BEB occurs in both sexes, although it is especially common in middle-aged and elderly women.
20485	Essential tremor (ET) usually presents as a rhythmic tremor that is present only when the affected muscle is exerting effort. The tremors do not present at rest. Any kind of physical or mental stress tends to make the tremor worse, often creating the false impression that the tremor is psychosomatic of origin. It is typical for the tremor to become worse in "performance" situations, such as when writing out a check at a checkout counter. ET-related tremors do not occur during sleep, but patients may complain of an especially coarse tremor upon waking up that becomes noticeably less coarse within the first few minutes of being awake. The intensity of the tremor can otherwise worsen in response to fatigue, strong emotions, cold, lithium salts, low blood sugar, caffeine, some antidepressants or other factors. In disabling cases, ET can interfere with a person's ability to perform tasks of required of daily living, including dressing, feeding, and activities of personal hygiene.
20487	People who have BIH usually suffer from headaches and problems with vision. Weakness and sensory problems are also present.
20488	Patients suffering from BPPV may experience of dizziness, lightheadedness, unsteadiness, and a loss of balance. They may also complain of vertigo, where he feels as if his surroundings are spinning or moving. Patients may also complain of blurred vision, nausea, and also experience vomiting. The signs and symptoms of BPPV come and go, with episodes commonly lasting less than a minute. Episodes of BPPV can disappear for some time and then come back. Activities that bring about the symptoms of BPPV can vary from person to person, but are almost always brought on by a change in the position of the person's head. Abnormal rhythmic eye movements, or nystagmus, usually accompany BPPV. Although unlikely, it's possible to have BPPV in both ears, which is called bilateral BPPV.
20489	Weak urine stream and difficulty initiating urination. Frequency in the need to urinate especially during night time, usually marked with urgency. Straining while urinating with blood in the urine. Stopping and starting with dribbling at the end of urination.
20490	Benign prostatic hyperplasia symptoms are considered under obstructive or irritative symptoms. It includes incomplete voiding, hesitancy, straining, intermittency, weak urinary stream, frequency of urination, and urgency. Benign Prostate Hyperplasia can progress especially if untreated. Some symptoms may include urinary tract infections, development of urinary bladder stones, and urinary retention.
20491	The symptoms of Berdon's Syndrom result from the underlying smooth muscle disorder. The muscles of the internal organs are loose and flabby and do not develop properly. Some symptoms of Berdon's Syndrome are a giant bladder that is weak (megacystis), a too-small large intestine (microcolon), and intestinal hypoperistalsis, where the small intestine is too wide and its weak muscles don't let food pass through very well. Other symptoms are the abdominal muscles are flabby and lax, making the baby's belly look wrinkled, like a prune. The hypoperistalsis can lead to constipation and blockage of the intestines.
20492	The common symptoms of bereavement are consistent crying, loss of thoughts; frequent reminiscing of memories of the lost loved one. Bereaved persons also sometimes show violent tantrums and would want to be left alone.
20493	A person with Berger's disease may have no symptoms at all or may display symptoms such as blood in the urine (hematuria), often after a respiratory infection (like tonsillitis) in patients who are less than 40 years old and have Berger's. This blood may be visible to the naked eye or may be seen only through a microscope. Patients may also have kidney damage or failure (discovered only when kidney function tests are measured), high blood pressure (hypertension), protein in the urine, and swelling or edema if there is a lot of protein lost in the urine. Also some patients with blood in the urine may experience flank pain as with a kidney stone.
20494	The symptoms of beriberi include weight loss, impaired sensory perception (or Wernicke's encephalopathy), emotional disturbances, weakness and pain in the limbs, and periods of irregular heart rate. Edema (or the swelling of bodily tissues) is common. In advanced cases of beriberi, the disease may cause heart failure leading to death. It may also increase the amount of pyruvic and lactic acids in the patient's blood. Two forms of the disease are wet beriberi and dry beriberi. Wet beriberi targets the heart and is sometimes fatal, as it causes a combination of heart failure and weakening of the capillary walls, which then leads to the peripheral tissues becoming edematous. Dry beriberi, on the other hand, causes wasting and partial paralysis of the muscles, resulting from peripheral nerves getting damaged. It is also known as endemic neuritis.
20495	People affected with Berlin breakage syndrome display small heads, have retarded growth and immunodeficiency, and have an increased risk of cancer. Other physical characteristics of patients are receding or small jaws, beaked or large noses, deep upper lip groove, low frontal hairline, may have sparse scalp hair, upslanted space between the eyelids, and are short in stature. Patients may also suffer from chronic inflammatory lung disease and humoral immune deficiency. They may also display wasted muscles and underdeveloped thymus. The Berlin breakage syndrome is characterized by microcephaly, or small heads. Patients have a distinct facial appearance, short height, problems with their immune system, sensitivity to radiation, and a strong tendency to lymphoid malignancy. Less common symptoms of the disease are leukemia, sensitivity to light, respiratory distress, and a cafΘ-au-lait spot. They may also be viselike and possess cleft lips and palates.
20496	The symptoms of the disease include profuse bleeding during trauma or injuries, as well as inflammation of the body organs. Stomach ulcers, trauma and menstruation can also induce the onset of the disease.
20497	With single or prolonged exposure by inhalation, the lungs become supersensitive to beryllium resulting to the development of small inflammatory nodules, called granulomas. Granulomas can be seen in other chronic diseases, such as tuberculosis and sarcoidosis, and it can sometimes be hard to distinguish berylliosis from these disorders. Ultimately, this process results to restrictive lung disease, a decreased diffusion capacity. Patients affected by berylliosis experience cough and shortness of breath. Other symptoms of the disease include chest pain, joint aches, weight loss and fever. One can rarely get granulomas in other organs including the liver. The start of symptoms can range from weeks up to dozens of years from the initial exposure. In some individuals a single exposure can already result to berylliosis.
20498	Sarcoidosis can occur in almost everywhere in the body, although it generally affects some organs more than others. It usually starts in the lungs or lymph nodes, especially the ones found in the chest cavity. Sarcoidosis can also often affect the skin, eyes, and liver. Less often does sarcoidosis affect the spleen, nerves, heart, tear glands, salibary glands, and the bones and joints. It is rare for the disease to affect the thyroid gland, breasts, kidneys, and reproductive organs. It almost always occurs in more than one organ at a time.
20499	Symptoms of beta thalassemia take place when there is not enough oxygen that gets to various parts of the body due to low levels of hemoglobin and a shortage of red blood cells (or anemia). This disorder is categorized as thalassemia major (also known as Cooley's anemia) or thalassemia intermedia depending on how severe the symptoms are. Of the two types, thalassemia major is the more severe kind. Signs and symptoms of thalassemia major appear in the first 2 years of infancy. Babies have life-threatening anemia and become pale and tired. They also have a poor appetite, slow growth, and may develop jaundice, or the yellowing of the skin and whites of the eyes. The bones may be deformed and the liver, spleen and heart may be enlarged. Adolescents with thalassemia major may experience a delay in puberty. Signs and symptoms of thalassemia intermedia often appear in early childhood or later on in life. Individuals with thalassemia intermedia have mild to moderate anemia and may also have poor development and posses bone abnormalities.
20500	People affected with Bhaskar Jagannathan syndrome display some delayed developmental milestones and may suffer from incoordination. Patients may also have poor balance, and possess long and thin fingers. Infants with the disease initially form cataracts early on. They may also suffer from ataxia, which is a neurological sign and symptom made up of gross incoordination of muscle movements and is an aspecific clinical manifestation (implies dysfunction of parts of the nervous system that coordinate movement, such as the cerebellum). People affected with the Bhaskar Jagannathan syndrome have an increased level of amino acids in the urine.
20503	The symptoms of bile duct cancer generally develop slowly and are commonly subtle. Jaundice, or a condition wherein the skin turns yellow, and itching are the two most common signs. Other symptoms linked to bile duct cancer are: weight loss, appetite loss, bloating, fever, nausea, and an expanding mass in the abdomen.
20504	The symptoms of bile reflux are often similar to those of acid reflux. The distinguishing difference is that bile affects the stomach, causing inflammation and a burning pain in the upper abdomen. Other signs of bile reflux include: nausea, vomiting bile, occasional couching, unexpected weight loss, and frequent heartburn.
20505	Initially, the symptoms cannot be distinguished from neonatal jaundice, a common phenomenon. Symptoms are usually displayed between two and six weeks after birth. Aside from jaundice, other symptoms include dark urine, pale stools, swollen abdominal region and large hardened liver (which may or may not be observable by the naked eye). Symptoms also include an enlarged spleen, foul-smelling stool, slow or no weight gain, and abnormally slow growth. Prolonged jaundice that is resistant to phototherapy or exchange transfusions should prompt an examination for secondary causes. By this time, liver enzymes are measured, and these tend to be grossly deranged. Hyperbilirubinaemia is joined together and therefore does not lead to kernicterus. Newborns with this condition may appear normal when they are born. However, jaundice (which is a yellow color to the skin, whites of the eyes, and mucous membranes) develops by the second or third week of life. The infant may gain weight normally during the first month, but then will lose it and become irritable. The infant's jaundice may also worsen.
20507	The primary symptom of binge-eating disorder is the regular occurrence of a "binge", an episode wherein the affected person eats huge amounts of food in one sitting. Individuals who regularly "binge" eat more food than most people under similar situations. Typically, there are no physical signs of binge-eating disorder. Some patients are overweight, while others maintain normal weight. However, there are a number of emotional and behavioral symptoms associated with binge-eating disorder, including: eating large amounts of food even when full; eating rapidly during binges; feeling loss of control over one's eating behavior; depression and anxiety; frequent dieting without weight loss; hoarding food; frequently eating alone; and feeling of self-loathing and disgust following a binge episode.
20508	A person affected with Binswanger's disease may show signs of dementia, loss of memory, loss of cognition, mood changes, self-centeredness, and childish behavior. They may also suffer from depression and may have a particular dislike for unusual events. Some obvious symptoms are difficulty walking, clumsiness, slowness of conduct, lack of facial expression, speech difficulties, and Parkinson-type tremors. Patients may also suffer from an abnormal blood pressure (either too high or too low), stroke, blood abnormalities, seizures, and urinary incontinence. Other symptoms include progressive dementia, arteriosclerosis, and subcortical demyelination.
20509	Symptoms include drying of the skin, seborrheic dermatitis, fungal infections, rashes, alopecia, brittle hair, depression, myalgias, nausea, vomiting, and anorexia.
20510	The signs and symptoms of biotinidase deficiency generally appear within the first few months of the infant's life, but the age of onset varies. Children with profound biotinidase deficiency (the much more severe form of the condition) often have seizures, weak muscle tone (or hypotonia), breathing problems, and delayed development. If left untreated, the disorder can result to hearing loss, eye abnormalities and loss of vision, problems with movement and balance (ataxia), skin rashes, hair loss (alopecia), and a fungal infection called candidiasis. Immediate treatment and lifelong management with biotin supplements can prevent many of these complications to arise. Metabolic acidosis can result in coma and eventual death.
20512	Bird flu presents with coughing, fever, sore throat, muscle aches, and conjunctivitis among infected humans. In severe cases, individuals with bird flu develop life-threatening complications such as viral pneumonia and acute respiratory distress.
20513	Birthmarks can either be flat or raised. Some with regular and irregular boundaries. Shades vary from tan, brown, black, pale blue, pink, red or purple. There are two main types of birthmarks: red, vascular birthmarks and pigmented birthmarks. The first one includes portwine stains, "strawberry " hemangiomas and "stork bites" while the second type includes moles, Mongolian spots, and cafΘ-au-lait spots.
20514	According to historians, the bubonic plague was characterized by headaches, fainting spells and black spots that occurred in the skin. Death came in 4 to 5 days.
20515	Symptoms includes discoloration and swelling as a result of a the blood that is reabsorbed and the varios pigment are released similar to bruising that leads to an outward appearance.
20516	Shortness of breath slowly worsens as the disease progresses. Emphysema may be present or start to develop; a condition of the lung wherein tiny air sacs are damaged resulting to respiratory and heart failure. Progressive massive fibrosis may develop even after dust exposure has ended.
20517	Blackheads appear as visible dark spots on the surface of the skin. Blackheads often affect the skin of the face, but may also affect other skin surfaces throughout the body. They typically occur in adolescents or teenagers, but may affect individuals of all ages, even infants.
20518	Some patients with bladder calculi do not show any signs or symptoms. The condition becomes symptomatic when the calculi irritates the bladder wall or obstructs urine flow from the bladder. In such cases, the following symptoms may be observed: pain in the lower abdomen; pain or discomfort in the penis; pain during urination; difficulty urinating; frequent urination; uncontrollable urine flow or incontinence; blood excreted in the urine; and abnormally dark urine.
20519	Blood in the urine can sometimes be bright red or cola colored in appearance. Frequent and painful urination usually occurs in combination with pain in the back and abdominal region. Infection in the urinary tract of the patient often comes with the disease.
20520	Symptoms of loss of bladder control have varying severity; ranging from occasional minor urine leaks when coughing or sneezing, to unpredictable episodes of strong unexpected urine flow. In a few cases, loss of bladder control occurs alongside fecal incontinence, or uncontrollable stool movement.
20521	Bladder infection manifests with the following common symptoms: a burning or painful sensation during urination; a persistent and often uncontrollable urge to urinate; hematuria or the presence of blood in the urine; frequent leaks of small amounts of urine; foul odor in the urine; general discomfort in the pelvic region; pressure in the lower abdomen; and low-grade fever.
20522	Symptoms of bladder inflammation have fluctuating severity. Affected patients may experience periods of remission. Some of the common signs of bladder inflammation are: pelvic pain during intercourse; suprapubic pain in women or perineal pain in men; a persistent urge to urinate; frequent minor urine leaks throughout the day; and chronic pelvic pain.
20523	Bladder neoplasm characteristically causes blood to mix with the urine; this may be visible to the naked eye (frank haematuria) or seen only by microscope (microscopic haematuria). Other possible symptoms of bladder neoplasm include pain during urination, frequent urination or feeling the need to urinate without results. These signs and symptoms are not specific to this bladder disease, and are also caused by non-cancerous conditions, including prostate infections and cystitis. Other symptoms include blood in the urine, darker and reduced urine, pain during urination, frequent urination, frequent urge to urinate whether producing urine of not, bladder pain, and abdominal pain. A later symptom of bladder neoplasm is weight loss.
20524	Symptoms of Bladder Papilloma includes bright red blood in urine and urinary retention, pain.
20525	Patients with bladder tones typically experience: a frequent urge to urinate; interruption in urine flow or difficulty urinating; presence of blood in the urine; pain and discomfort in the pelvic area; incontinence; dark color in the urine; as well as urinary tract infections characterized by dysuria, urinary urgency, and fever. Bladder stones become symptomatic only when the stones irritate the lining of the bladder or obstruct urine flow. In some cases, bladder stones remain asymptomatic.
20526	In its milder form, a prolapsed bladder is asymptomatic. When symptoms do present, they usually include: a characteristic grapefruit-sized bulge of tissue protruding from the vaginal opening; sensation of fullness or pressure in the pelvis and vagina; increased discomfort when coughing, straining, or lifting; stress incontinence; recurrent bladder infections; as well as pain or urinary leakage during intercourse.
20527	Most cases of Blastocystis hominis infections are asymptomatic. However, the infection may also exhibit some abdominal and gastrointestinal symptoms, including: diarrhea, nausea, fatigue, bloating, flatulence or excessive gas, abdominal cramps, and anal itching.
20528	Blastoma is asymptomatic in its early stages, meaning symptoms do not display themselves at the onset of the disease. People who have blastomas typically experience pain, weight loss and lethargy. They may feel tired all the time due to languor. Patients also complain of impaired vision and impaired hearing, and their liver and spleen might enlarge and grow in size. Other symptoms are neurological.
20529	Blastomycosis presents a flulike illness with fever, myalgia, chills, and headache. These symptoms are usually accompanied with a nonproductive cough which resolves within days. It also results in an acute illness similar to bacterial pneumonia, with symptoms of high fever, chills, a productive cough, and pleuritic pains in the chest. Patients may also experience a chronic illness that mimics tuberculosis or lung cancer, with signs of low-grade fever, a productive cough, night sweats, and weight loss. There may also be a fast, progressive, and severe disease that manifests as ARDS, with fever, shortness of breath, tachypnea, hypoxemia, and diffuse pulmonary infiltrates. Some patients develop skin lesions, usually asymptomatic, appearing as ulcerated lesions with small pustules at the margins. Patients also complain of bone or joint pain due to bone lytic lesion. Other symptoms include prostatitis which may be asymptomatic and may cause pain on urinating, and involvement of the larynx causing hoarseness.
20531	Bleeding varices are presented by vomiting of blood, bloody stool, rapid heart rate, low blood pressure and shock.
20532	Regardless of the type of blepharitis an individual has, he or she will most likely develop symptoms such as eye irritation, burning, tearing, foreign body sensation, dryness, and red eyelid margins. Crusty debris (in the lashes, in the corner of the eyes or on the lids) will also most likely develop as a symptom. It is important to see an eye doctor and get treatment for blepharitis. If the blepharitis is bacterial, possible long-term effects are dilated and visible capillaries, thickened lid margins, eyelash loss, trichiasis, ectropion and entropion. The lower third of the cornea may also exhibit significant erosion.
20533	Patients born with blepharophimosis display signs of the condition such as small eyelids that are short in dimension which can causing ectropion, where the lower eyelid is too short to adequately cover the eye. The eyelids tend to be shorter from side to side and may display ptosis, or the sagging of the eyelids. Patients may also have a dissicult time as they only have a small opening for the eyes to see through. Their eyes are also spread apart from eachother (known as telecanthus) that can make the nose look extremely flattened. Other symptoms of the condition are the arching of the eyebrows, the presence of epicanthal folds (a fold of extra tissue near the central corner of the eye opening, and the bones above the eyes (the supraorbital ridge) is slightly flattened. The patient may also possess a lateral displacement of inner canthi, hypoplasia and fibrosis of the levator palpebrae muscle, strabismus, amblyopia, increased vertical height of eyebros, incomplete ear development and cupped ears, primary hypogonadism, and reduced muscle tone early on in life. Females with this condition may suffer from menstrual irregularity and infertility. The condition is usually inherited and its different elements show up to various degrees. Besides the unusual appearance, individuals with blepharophimosis cannot easily see beyond their eyelids.
20534	Patients affected with this condition suffer from excessive blinking and spasming of the eyes, usually characterized by an uncontrollable eyelid closure of lengthy durations, usually longer than the typical blink reflex, and can sometimes lasting minutes or even hours. The patient may also experience uncontrollable tics or twitches of the eye muscles and surrounding facial area. Some sufferers have twitching symptoms that radiate into the nose, face and sometimes, even the neck area. Dryness of the eyes and sensitivity to the sun and bright light are also symptoms of the condition.
20535	Blind loop syndrome particularly affects the functions of digestion and absorption. It typically presents with the following symptoms: appetite loss; intense abdominal pain; nausea; steatorrhea or foul-smelling fatty stools; sensation of bloating; sensation of fullness after eating; diarrhea; and unintended weight loss.
20536	Difficulty in identifying people can be a symptom of blindness. Tendency to always bump into objects. They tend to consider light either too light or too dim. Squinting to be able to recognize something or someone. Disorientation or confusion in certain areas that requires vision.
20538	The symptoms of the disease are breathlessness, sudden pain in the chest, anxiety and restlessness.
20539	The condition is a symptom of other diseases, and it characterized by blood found in the seminal fluid.
20540	Bleeding in the skin may be the initial sign that the platelet count is low. Often, numerous tiny red dots appear in the skin on the lower legs. People may form bruises easily. Slight injuries sometimes cause small scattered bruises on the skin. The gums may bleed, and blood may be mixed in the stool or urine. Bleeding due to injuries may be hard to control. Bleeding worsens as the platelet count goes down. When the count is below 20,000, bleeding in the digestive tract or brain may result even when there is no injury. This bleeding may be life threatening for the affected individual.
20541	A person suffering from blood poisoning may incur septicemia or septic shock, as well as other blood complications.
20542	People with high blood pressure may have it for years without any symptoms, even if the hypertension reaches dangerous levels. However, if untreated, it may lead to potentially life-threatening complications such as heart attacks and strokes. Some patients may experience dull headaches, dizziness spells, and frequent nosebleeds.
20543	Most individuals with low blood pressure are actually in peak physical condition with reduced risk of cardiovascular disorders. However, extremely low blood pressure can indicate the presence of an underlying problem, particularly when low blood pressure is accompanied by the following symptoms: lightheadedness or dizziness; fainting spells; nausea; inability to concentrate; pale and clammy skin; rapid and shallow breathing; fatigue; depression; and constant thirst. Severe hypotension may deprive the brain and other vital organs of oxygen and essential nutrients, causing the body to go into shock.
20544	People with Bloom syndrome are much shorter and smaller than average, and often have a high-pitched voice and characteristic facial features including a long, narrow face; small lower jaw; and prominent nose and ears. They tend to develop pigmentation changes and dilated blood vessels in the skin, particularly due to sun exposure. These changes often appear as a butterfly-shaped patch of reddened skin on the patient's face. The skin changes may also affect the limbs. Other features of the disorder may include mental retardation, learning disabilities, diabetes, chronic lung problems, and immune deficiency that leads to recurrent pneumonia and ear infections. Men with Bloom syndrome generally do not produce sperm and, as a result, are unable to father children. Women with the disorder generally experience menopause earlier than most.
20545	Clinically, children with Blount's disease present with bowing and length discrepancy in their lower limbs. A nontender bony protuberance can be palpated along the medial aspect of the proximal tibia, this representing the deformed medial tibial metaphysis. In late-onset tibia vara, shortening of the leg may be associated with pain and tenderness over the medial prominence of the proximal tibia. Obesity and bowing are usually evident on physical examination. Bowing can be unilateral or bilateral. An estimated 80% of infantile cases and 50% of late-onset cases are bilateral. On observing the standing child from behind, the bowing is centered just below the knee without involvement of the femur. Uncorrected internal tibial torsion is commonly found. On walking, a lateral thrust of the knee or sudden lateral knee movement with weight bearing may be seen as evidence of progressive tibia vara.
20546	Patients with blue cone monochromatism have profound color impairment, but due to the presence of some functioning cone cells in the retina, they have a small residual amount of color vision and slightly better visual acuity. They are often called yellow-blue disorders, but "blue-green disorder" is more accurate since they affect the ability to distinguish colors in the short- and middle-wave regions of the color spectrum.
20547	Symptoms typically include digestive disturbances, fever and problems with vision. Some children with this condition may also develop kidney disease. Blue diaper syndrome is characterized by bluish urine-stained diapers found on affected infants. Hypercalcemia and nephrocalcinosis are also associated with this syndrome, which is a defect in the intestinal transport of tryptophan.
20548	No malignant transformation of cutaneous or internal lesions has been reported. Some patients may have severe bleeding from the GI tract (bowel), which can be fatal, while most bleeding from the GI tract is slow, minor, and chronic, resulting in iron deficiency anemia. Multiple transfusions and periodic observance can modify the morbidity of this disease. Lesions involving the bones and joints can cause profound discomfort and loss of function for the patient which would require amputations in some cases. In rare cases, central nervous system involvement can be fatal. Lesions may also appear on the patient's skin. Cutaneous lesions can often be seen at birth or they manifest early in childhood. These lesions are usually highly characteristic, as numerous, protruding, dark blue, compressible blebs, a few millimeters to several centimeters in diameter and varied in hue and shape, most of which are asymptomatic but some may be spontaneously painful or tender to the touch. They may be few or may reach hundreds. These lesions may appear blue, black, purple-red, or red and may be flat or elevated. Skin lesions rarely bleed unless they are traumatized. Progression in size and number of blebs may occur as the patient grows older. Lesions are mostly found on the skin and in the small intestine and distal large bowel. They may also occur in less common areas such as the nasopharynx, lungs, liver, heart, and brain.
20549	Individuals affected with this disorder may compulsively check the mirror and glance at any reflective surface. Alternatively, some people have the inability to look at their own reflection and may even have the mirrors around their house taken down. Compulsive skin-touching may also be involved, especially to feel or measure the perceived defect. They may also have obsessive and elaborate grooming behaviors, such as picking, combing hair, plucking eyebrows, and shaving. People affected with this disorder may also excessively seek reassurance from their loved ones and may even withdraw from social situations wherein their physical flaws and defects might easily be perceived. There may also be an obsession with plastic surgery, which leads to little satisfactory results for the patient. In extreme cases, patients have even attempted to perform plastic surgery on themselves, often with disastrous results. They have tried to remove undesired features with a knife or other sharp tools when the center of the concern is on a small area, such as a mole or other such feature on the skin.
20550	Among the symptoms of typhus are high fever, chills, extreme weakness and muscle pain, stiffness and cerebral disturbance. Dark-red rashes soon occur in the skin. Delirium soon follows and eventually, death, when left untreated.
20551	Sweating is a natural body process, but excessive sweating can be embarrassing and may sometimes indicate more serious and potentially life-threatening health problems. Sweating is normally odorless, but in extreme cases, it produces a distinctive foul smelling smell or body odor.
20552	The symptoms of boils are red, pus-filled lumps that are tender to the touch, warm, and painful. A yellow or white point at the center of the lump can be seen when the boil is ready to discharge pus. In severe infections, multiple boils may develop all over and the patient may experience fever and swollen lymph nodes. Recurring boils are called chronic furunculosis. In some people, itching may develop on the area before the lumps begin to develop. Boils are often found on the back, underarms, shoulders, face, lip, eyes, nose, thighs and buttocks, but they may be found elsewhere. Boils on the ear tend to be more painful than elsewhere, and can create extreme pain in the entire area when touched. Sometimes, boils will emit an unpleasant smell, particularly when it is drained or when discharge is present. This is due to the presence of bacteria in the discharge.
20553	A painful pink or red bump that's generally not more that 1 inch in diameter is a symptom for a boil appearing on your skin which may also be red and swollen. The bump fills with pus within a few days and it grows larger and more painful for about five to seven days, and would sometimes reach like a golf ball size before developing a yellow-white tip that finally ruptures and drains. A large boil leaves a scar while small boils usually heal without scarring.
20554	Pain in the long bones either on the arms or legs. Weakened bones that oftentimes lead to fracture. Joint inflammation for tumors located near joints or actually in the specific joint. Fatigue, fever, anemia, and unexplainable weight loss are common symptoms of the condition.
20555	In children, symptoms of bone infection usually worsen in a matter of days or weeks, and may include: irritability; abrupt fever; lethargy; pain or warmth in the affected area; as well as redness or swelling in the region with the infection. In adults, symptoms may include: pain and tenderness in the affected area; warmth, swelling, and redness at the site of infection; and drainage from an open wound near the area of the infection. Some cases of bone infections are asymptomatic.
20556	In its early stages, bone loss may occur without pain or any other physical symptoms. However, if bones become porous or brittle due to osteoporosis, the following symptoms may arise: loss of height over time; visibly stooped posture; mild to severe back pain; plus fracture of the wrists, vertebrae, hips, or other bones.
20557	The most common symptom that patients with bone tumors experience is pain, but many patients will not have any at all, except for a painless mass. Some bone tumors may weaken the structure of the infected bone, causing pathologic fractures. There may also be joint tenderness and swelling on the area affected, and even lumps found on the bone itself. Anemia, fever, fatigue, weight loss, and fractures may also be experienced. The patient may also undergo movement problems. Most often than not, bone neoplasm is asymptomatic in its early stages.
20558	In most cases, bone spurs are asymptomatic. However, some bone spurs may cause joint pain and even loss of motion in affection joints. Other symptoms depend on the location of these bony outgrowths. Bone spurs growing in knees may cause pain when extending and bending the leg. Bone spurs in the spine may push against the nerves, put pressure on the spinal cord, and produce pain and numbness elsewhere in the body. Cervical bone spurs may protrude inward, causing swallowing or breathing difficulties. Bone spurs in the shoulder may restrict the arm's range of motion. On the fingers, bone spurs may appear as painful, hard, disfiguring lumps under the skin.
20559	The capacity to control anger is low and often lacking. Unstable judgment about self, which often leads to thinking that they are bad or too evil. Exhibits impulsive and risky behaviors including inflicting injury on own self. Strong emotions that suddenly arise then vanish all of a sudden. Fear of abandonment resulting to instability to maintain relationships.
20561	The symptoms of Bornholm Disease includes chest pains, pain the upper abdomen, deep breathing, fever, flu-like symptoms, headache and rib muscle tenderness.
20563	The acute phase of Lyme disease infection is a particular reddish "bulls-eye" rash, with accompanying fever, malaise, and musculoskeletal pain (arthralgia or myalgia). The characteristic reddish "bull's-eye" rash (also known as erythema chronicum migrans) may be seen in up to 80% of early stage Lyme disease patients, and appearing anywhere from one day to a month after a tick bite. The rash does not represent an allergic reaction to the bite, but a skin infection that is caused by the Lyme bacteria, Borrelia burgdorferi sensu lato. The incubation period from infection to the start of symptoms is usually 1-2 weeks, but can be much shorter (days), or much longer (months to years). Symptoms most often occur from May through September because the nymphal stage of the tick is responsible for majority of the cases. Asymptomatic infection exists, but they are quite uncommon.
20564	Bothriocephalosis can last for decades if left untreated. Most infections are do not show symptoms. Manifestations may include diarrhea, abdominal discomfort, vomiting and weight loss. Vitamin B12 deficiency with subsequent megaloblastic anemia can occur, but has not for several decades in infections caused by D. latum, possibly because of improved nutrition. In one test, almost half of the ingested vitamin was absorbed by D. latum in otherwise healthy patients, while 80-100% was absorbed by the worm in patients with anemia. It is not known why anemia happens in some cases but not others. Massive infections may also result in intestinal obstruction. Migration of proglottids can lead to cholecystitis or cholangitis. Patients affected by bothriocephalosis may also suffer from abdominal pain, nausea, and a reduced appetite. Anemia and Vitamin B12 deficeincy can also result from the infection. Females cases are disproportionately reported, most likely because of the higher likelihood for them to be involved in meal preparation, rather than any morphological differences.
20565	Normal symptoms of food-borne botulism usually occur between 12-36 hours after ingesting the botulinum toxin. However, they can occur as early as 6 hours or as late as 10 days after consumption. Wound botulism has a much longer incubation period, usually between 4-14 days. Normal symptoms usually include dry mouth, difficulty swallowing, drooping eyelids, double or blurred vision, muscle weakness, difficult breathing, slurred speech, vomiting, bladder and sometimes diarrhea. These symptoms may continue to result to paralytic ileus with severe constipation, and will lead to body paralysis. The respiratory muscles are affected as well, which may cause death which results from respiratory failure. These are all symptoms of the muscle paralysis that the bacterial toxin causes. In all cases illness is caused by the toxin produced by C. botulinum, not because of the bacterium itself. The pattern of damage occurs due to the toxin affecting nerves that are firing more often.
20566	The physical manifestations of tuberous sclerosis are the result of the formation of hamartomas (benign growths such as facial angiofibroma and subependymal nodules), hamartia (malformed tissue such as the cortical tubers), and, very rarely, cancerous hamartoblastomas. The effect of these on the brain causes the neurological symptoms such as seizures, developmental delay and behavioral problems.
20567	Bovine TB may not show any symptoms in animals affected thought they can exhibit weight loss and a quick decline in general health. If the disease was acquired through contracted breathing in the bacterium symptoms may include difficulty in breathing, cough and other lung symptoms.
20568	Incapacity to control gas or stool passage, whether solid or liquid from the bowels. Urgency is so sudden that sometimes making it to the toilet is not even possible.
20569	Symptoms of Bowel Obstruction include pain in the abdomen, distenrion of the abdomen, fecal vomiting and severe constipation.
20570	Bowen's disease generally presents as a gradually enlarging, well demarcated erythematous plaque with an irregular border and surface crusting or scaling. BD may occur at any age in adults but is rarely found in people below 30 years of age; most patients are aged over 60. Any site may be affected, although palms or soles are rarely involved. BD occurs predominantly in women (70-85% of cases); about three-fourths of patients have lesions on the lower leg (60-85%), usually in previously or presently sun-exposed areas of skin. There may be persistent progressive non-elevated red scaly or crusted plaque which is due to an intradermal carcinoma and is potentially malignant. Atypical squamous (resembling fish scales) cells proliferate through the whole thickness of the skin. The lesions may appear anywhere on the skin surface or on mucosal surfaces. The cause most commonly found is trivalent arsenic compounds. Freezing, cauterization or diathermy coagulation is often effective treatment for Bowen's disease. Bowen disease manifests as a single lesion in two thirds of cases. Lesions may show up on sun-exposed or covered skin. The head and neck are the most frequently affected anatomic locations, followed by the limbs. Lesions differ in size from a few millimeters to several centimeters in diameter. A sharply demarcated, irregular border is usually present. Lesions are erythematous, scaly patches or plaques that can become hyperkeratotic, crusted, fissured, or ulcerated. The lesions are rarely pigmented, especially in the genital region and the nails. Lesions in these locations may appear as melanoma. Bowen disease also may develop on mucous membranes. When these lesions occur on the glans penis, it is referred to as erythroplasia of Queyrat.
20571	The main symptom for the disease is a clove of bulging mass that develops in the outer ear, which seems to look like a cauliflower.
20572	Sensation similar to electric shock or burning sensation suddenly jolts in the arm. This is often followed by numbness and weakness usually lasting for a few minutes. In severe cases, complete absence of motor and sensory function of the arm and terrible pain.
20574	Bradycardia is a condition wherein heart rate slows down to less than 60 beats per minute. A healthy heart normally beats between 60 and 100 beats per minute to provide sufficient oxygenated blood to the body.
20575	In general, sick sinus syndrome does not cause any symptoms. However, if the heartbeat drops to less than 40 per minute, patients may experience fatigue, weakness, and even fainting because the brain does not get sufficient supplies of blood. Bradycardia-tachycardia syndrome patients, in particular, tend to feel heart palpitations when the heart beats rapidly. As their heartbeat slows, dizziness may occur. When the heart switches between rapid and slow beating, patients may faint.
20576	Bradykinesia is one of the constituents of Parkinson's disease, although it is also associated with other diseases. For patients suffering from Parkinson's disease, it is generally the most tiring and frustrating of the associated conditions. Small muscle movement is one of the first affected areas of the patient's body. Therefore, a common test is to ask the patient to tap his finger. Normal individuals tap their fingers at 4 or 5 Hz, while someone afflicted with bradykinesia can usually manage only up to 1 Hz.(3) There is are no known cures for bradykinesia. Certain surgeries may help lessen the effects of the condition. Hope remains for the future while researchers continue to explore different possibilities, examining causes and treatments that can lead to a cure and to more clues about Parkinson's disease, Huntington's disease, and other conditions with which bradykinesia is associated. Not only does bradykinesia affect the speed of movement, the person's ability to complete a motion is also affefted. While walking, the patient's arms no longer swing, but remain lax at the person's sides. If a person with bradykinesia is asked to make a fist without looking, he can tell that his movements are slow. The individual does not, however, realize that he never makes a complete fist. The fingers may be only bent slightly. Slowness of movement not bradykinesia. It can be associated with depression, stroke, or any kind of injury to the brain. The motion may be slow, but it is still done completely. The slow, shuffling stride of a Parkinsonian and the monotonous voice are examples of bradykinesia. In this condition, not only is the person moving the feet and legs slowly, they are unable to make a full stride. Most cases of bradykinesia do not affect the entire body, but it is likely for the whole body to be afflicted. In extremely severe cases, patients have a noticeable, unnatural stillness. While seated, they don't make any movements the way normal individuals move, such as crossing and uncrossing legs, crossing and uncrossing arms, shifting the angle of their head, or tapping their fingers. Bradykinesia affecting the face can lead to what is called "mask face" because of the constant lack of expression. Loss of voice volume and missing intonation are common occurrences in those with bradykinesia. Since the most apparent symptoms of bradykinesia can apply to other diseases, and there are several causes for the condition, it is important that all bases are checked, including a thorough family history, drug use, and any pre-existing conditions must be considered. MRI typically rules out stroke and tumor. A lumbar puncture is sometimes taken to measure the presence of metabolites and neurotransmitters in order to rule out metabolic disorders such as dopa-responsive dystonia. Drugs such as neuroleptics, calcium-channel blockers, and serotonin-reuptake inhibitors can be causes of bradykinesia. Other causes include depression, dementia, dementia, drug-induced parkinsonism, and repeated head trauma.
20577	An unruptured brain aneurysm produces no symptoms, especially if it's small. However, in the case of large aneurysm, it tends to press on the surrounding brain tissues and nerves and causes numbness, a dilated pupil, drooping eyelid, vision changes, and pain above and behind the eyes.
20577	If brain aneurysm doesn't rupture, it rarely poses health risks and show little to no symptoms. However, large aneurysm, even if unruptured, puts pressure on brain tissues and nerves, leading to: dilated pupils; numbness, weakness, or paralysis of one side of the face; drooping eyelids; and pain above or behind the eye. If brain aneurysm does rapture, it can cause the following symptoms: nausea and vomiting; sudden and extremely severe headaches; stiff neck; double vision; and loss of consciousness.
20578	Hallmark signs and symptoms of a brain attack are: aphasia or sudden difficulty speaking or comprehending language; sudden weakness, numbness, or paralysis of limbs or the face, usually on one side of the body; sudden dizziness accompanied by loss of balance or loss of coordination; sudden double, blurred, or decreased vision; sudden severe headaches; as well as confusion, memory problems, and loss of spatial perception. Often, a stroke or brain attack may suddenly occur without warning.
20579	Among the symptoms that may indicate that brain bleed is likely to occur are sudden headaches, high blood pressure and hypertension.
20580	Clinical symptoms of this disease include focal neurological deficits, recurrent headaches, hemorrhagic stroke, and seizures, but CCM can also be asymptomatic. Diagnosis is most commonly made by accident through routine magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) screening, but not all MRI exams are created equal. It is important that the patient request a gradient-echo sequence in order to unmask small or punctate lesions which may otherwise go undetected. These lesions are also more obvious on FLAIR imaging compared to standard T2 weighing. FLAIR imaging differs from Gradient sequences; rather, it is similar to T2 weighing but suppresses free-flowing fluid signal. Sometimes quiescent CCMs can be exposed as incidental findings during MRI exams ordered for other reasons.
20581	Symptoms includes drowsiness, weight loss, anxiety, weakness, difficulty in breathing, weak pulse, one sided paralysis, raised intracranial pressure and coma.
20582	Symptoms includes seizures, fever, chilling, vomiting, neck pain, weakness and sudden loss of weight.
20584	Headaches gradually increase in frequency and intensity. Loss of sensation or movement in the arm or leg that slowly progresses. Someone with no history of seizures suddenly experiences seizure episodes. Vision problems that may range from blurred to loss of peripheral vision.
20585	Symptoms include diarrhea which is watery, gas problems, mild abdominal pain, fatigue, nausea, fecal urgency and incontinence, fever, vomiting and weight loss.
20588	The signs associated with BOR syndrome are highly variable. Some individuals with BOR syndrome have many physical deformities. Other individuals with BOR syndrome have a very few minor physical differences. The birth defects can appear on only one side of the face (unilateral) or be present on both sides (bilateral). Abnormal development of the ears is the most frequent characteristic of BOR syndrome. The ears may be smaller than normal (microtia) and may have an abnormal shape. Ear tags (excess pieces of skin) may be seen on the cheek next to the patient's ear. Preauricular pits (small pits in the skin on the outside of the ear) are found in 75% of patients affected with BOR syndrome. Hearing loss is present in 85% of individuals with BOR syndrome and this may be mild or severe.
20590	The symptoms of the disease include an abnormal enlargement of the esophagus, colon and heart failure.
20591	Patients with breakbone fever usually suffer from high fever, lethargy, coughing with blood, and internal bleeding. The disease can be fatal when not treated.
20592	An appearance of swelling or lump in the breast coupled with a discharge from the nipple that can either be clear or bloody. Nipple can either show signs of retraction or indentation. Obvious change in the size and shape of the breast which may include redness or pitting of the skin over the breast.
20593	Women who are suffering from breast engorgement usually feel pain in the breasts; the breasts may also swell and throb.
20594	Symptoms of breast infection can appear suddenly without warning, and may include: tenderness or sensation warmth in the affected breast; general malaise or feeling ill; breast swelling; skin redness appearing in a wedge-shaped pattern; pain or burning sensation while breast feeding; and high fever at 101 F (38.3 C) or greater. Breast infection typically affects nursing mothers, and more commonly occurs during breast feeding.
20595	Symptoms of breast pain vary according to its type. Breast pain may occur in a pattern linked to the menstrual cycle, in which case it is called cyclic breast pain. Another form of breast pain, called noncyclic breast pain, occurs constantly, intermittently, with no relation to the menstrual cycle. A third type of breast pain, called extramammary breast pain, is actually pain originating from a different part of the body but feels like it's arising from the breast.
20596	Symptoms of Bright's disease include inflammation of the kidney, commonly called nephritis. Inflammation may be due to too much protein being shed through the kidneys, called proteinuria, or hematuria, which causes blood in the urine. As well, Bright's Disease may describe kidney failure due to high blood pressure or retention of fluids. The symptoms most commonly associated with Bright's Disease are intense pain on either or both sides of the lower back. Fever might be present and intense edema, or retention of fluids, might result to the extremities to appear extremely swollen. Breath could be labored and difficult, particularly if kidney failure caused fluid to accumulate in the lungs, or is caused by metastasized cancer. Analysis of urine in diagnosing Bright's Disease might show very cloudy, dark or bloody urine. Those affected with Bright's disease might also find eating difficult, or might have periods of nausea or vomiting.
20598	A broken ankle may manifest with the following signs: swelling, tenderness, and bruising of affected area; immediate throbbing pain that intensifies with physical activity and decreased at rest; visible deformity; inability to walk or bear weight; as well as puncture wounds, cuts, or protrusions of bone fragments.
20599	Usually, a loud snap or cracking sound can be heard when an arm is broken. However, some cases tend to be a little more subtle. In general, patients with a broken arm typically experience: severe pain that increases during movement; tenderness; bruising; swelling; obvious deformity such as a bent arm or wrist; stiffness; as well as movement restrictions such as inability to move the arm, wrist or elbow.
20600	The most obvious symptom of a broken blood vessel in the eye is the appearance of a bright red patch on the white (sclera) of the eye. In general, the condition doesn't cause any changes in the vision of the affected eye. Perhaps the only discomfort experienced is a scratchy feeling on the surface of the eye.
20601	A broken hand may exhibit the following symptoms: severe pain which may increase during squeezing or gripping objects; swelling, tenderness, and bruising in the affected hand; visible deformity usually in the form of a crooked finger or a bent wrist; stiffness or inability to move the fingers and thumb; as well as numbness and a cold sensation in the affected hand.
20602	Patients with a broken hip may experience the following symptoms: severe pain in the hip or groin area; inability to put weight on the leg on the side of injured hip; stiffness, swelling, and bruising in the hip area and its vicinity; shorter leg on the side of the injured hip; as well as turning outward of the leg on the side of the injured hip.
20603	A broken thighbone is immediately obvious; however, other fractures may have more subtle signs. In general, common symptoms of a broken leg include: severe pain which may worsen with movement; swelling; bruising; tenderness; obvious deformity or shortening of the affected leg; as well as limited range of motion or inability to walk.
20604	Signs and symptoms of a broken nose include: pain or tenderness particularly when touching the nose; swelling or reddening of the nose and nearby areas; nose bleeds; bruising around the nose or eyes; deformities such as a crooked or misshapen nose; breathing difficulties arising from a sensation that both nasal passages are blocked; as well as rhinorrhea or mucus discharges coming out from the nose.
20605	A basic sign of broken ribs is extreme pain in the chest area, particularly when inhaling or taking a deep breath and pressing the injured area. The pain usually worsens when the patients, bends, twists, or moves.
20606	Persons with asthma suffer periodic episodes of breathing difficulties, as oxygen is hindered to pass to the lungs.
20608	Runny and stuffy nose with or without fever are the initial symptoms manifested when a child has bronchiolitis. As the infection progresses, noisy breathing out(wheezing), harsh cough without the presence e of phlegm, rapid and sometimes difficult breathing, in combination with rapid heartbeat are experienced. Bluish-looking skin (cyanosis) is a sign of a severe episode which requires immediate medical attention.
20609	Individuals affected with BOOP display symptoms such as cough, dyspnea, influenza-like symptoms, febrile illness, widespread crackles, and mild resting hypoxemia. On examination, crackles commonly found, but clubbing is not. Plain chest radiography shows normal lung volumes, with distinct patchy unilateral or bilateral consolidation. Small nodular opacities appear in up to 50% of patients and large nodules in 15%. On HRCT, airspace consolidation with air bronchograms is evident in more than 90% of patients, often with a lower zone predominance A subpleural or peribronchiolar distribution is seen in up to 50% of patients. Ground glass or hazy opacities associated with the consolidation are detected in almost all patients. Pulmonary physiology is restrictive with decreased DLCO. Airflow limitation is rare; gas exchange is usually abnormal and mild hypoxemia is common. Bronchoscopy with BAL shows up to 40% lymphocytes, along with more subtle increases in neutrophils and eosinophils. In patients with typical clinical and radiographic features, a transbronchial biopsy that shows the pathologic pattern of organizing pneumonia and is missing features of an alternative diagnosis is enough to make a tentative diagnosis and start therapy.
20610	Coughing with a yellowish-gray or green- colored mucus discharge is a warning signal that may indicate bronchitis. Sore, constricted and burning sensation felt in the chest area. Noisy sound when breathing out is often manifested. Sinus fullness may lead to breathing difficulty and chest congestion. Slight fever and chill may present associated with general ill feeling.
20611	The following are the most commonly-found symptoms for chronic bronchitis. However, each individual may undergo symptoms differently. Such symptoms include cough and expectoration (or spitting out) of mucus. Chronic bronchitis may cause frequent and severe respiratory infections, narrowing and plugging of the breathing tubes (bronchi), difficult breathing, and disability. Other symptoms include abnormal lung signs, swelling of the feet, heart failure, and the lips and skin of the patients may appear blue. The symptoms of chronic bronchitis may look like other lung conditions or medical problems.
20612	Babies affected by this condition are more likely than other infants to have problems in other parts of their bodies that aren't yet fully developed. These include the brain, heart, kidneys, stomach, intestines, and eyes
20613	People suffering from bronze diabetes usually complain about joint pain. Fatigue, weakness and abdominal pain are also present.
20614	Individuals affected with Brown syndrome display symptoms such as congenital strabismus, Choroidal coloboma, decreased conjunctiva elasticity, and a widened space between eyelids when gazing upwards. They may also have symptoms such as drooping eyelids, an inability to move eye upward, squinting their eyes, absent eye muscle abduction, and restricted muscle abduction. Patients have a tendency to tilt their head backwards to enable themselves to see better.
20615	Brucellosis leads to inconstant fevers, sweating, weakness, anemia, headaches, depression and muscular and bodily pain. The symptoms are similar to those associated with many other febrile diseases, but with emphasis on muscular pain and sweating. The duration of the disease can differ from a few weeks to many months or even years. In the initial stage of the disease, septicaemia occurs and leads to the classic triad of undulant fevers, sweating (often with characteristic smell, likened to wet hay) and migratory arthralgia and myalgia. This complex is, at least in Portugal, referred to as the Malta fever. During episodes of Malta fever, melitococcemia (presence of brucellae in blood) can typically be demonstrated by means of blood culture in tryptose medium or Albini medium. If left untreated, the disease can give origin to focalizations or become chronic. The focalizations of brucellosis happen usually in bones and joints and spondylodisciitis of lumbar spine accompanied by sacroiliitis is very characteristic of this disease.
20618	Significant teeth grinding and clenching that often disturbs your sleeping partner, which may result to deformed teeth that can be flattened, chipped or worn down. Dilapidated tooth enamel, exposing the inner portion of the tooth. Pain in the jaw area and stiffness of the jaw muscle. Increased tooth sensitive due to worn enamel of the tooth.
20620	The acute syndrome presents with rapidly progressive severe upper abdominal pain, hepatomegaly (enlarged liver), jaundice, ascites, elevated liver enzymes, and eventual encephalopathy. The fulminant syndrome presents early on with encephalopathy and ascites. Severe hepatic necrosis and lactic acidosis may be evident as well. Caudate lobe hypertrophy is often found. Most of the patients have a slower-onset form of Budd-Chiari syndrome which can be painless. A system of venous collaterals may form around the occlusion which may resemble a spider's web. Patients may develop to cirrhosis and show the signs of liver failure. An asymptomatic form may be wholly silent and discovered only incidentally and is generally not concerning.
20621	Signs and symptoms of Buerger's disease include pain and weakness in the legs and feet or arms and hands, and fingers and toes that turn pale when exposed to cold (Raynaud's phenomenon). The patient may also experience swelling in the feet and hands, and open sores on the fingers and toes.
20622	A person with a bulging disk usually suffers pain and ruptures in the lower back.
20624	Bullous literally means large blisters, or a thin sac that is filled with fluid. The skin is abnormally itchy and red welts may develop as well as the possible appearance of hives following the development or during the formation of the blisters. The large blisters may appear on concentrated area, particularly in the flexural areas but may also spread all throughout the body.
20625	Most cases of bundle branch block are asymptomatic. If it does become symptomatic, it commonly presents with fainting or syncope, dizziness, presyncope or near-fainting, and slower heart rate or brachycardia.
20626	In general, bunions have the following signs and symptoms: a bulging bump on the outside of the big toe's base; swelling and soreness around the joint of the big toe; skin thickening at base of the big toe; restricted movement; as well as persistent or intermittent pain. Bunions are often painful, making walking difficult in normal shoes. The pain from bunions can vary from mild to severe.
20627	Symptoms includes high fever, rapid pulse, facial flushing, furry tongue, kidney malfunction, headache, irritability, reduced urine, proteinurea, liver inflammation, jaundice, yellowish eyes and skin, vomiting of blood, slow heartbeat, difficulty in breathing, weakness, kidney inflammation, muscle pain, mucous membrane bleeding, tiredness, confusion, delirium, gastrointestinal bleeding and inflammation and chest pain.
20628	Major symptoms of this disorder involve the burning pain in the palate, throat, lips and tongue or most areas of the mouth. Other key indicators include sore and dry mouth, numbness in the tip of the tongue and lips, and the bitter metallic tastes. In cases where pain intensifies, patients may also experience troubled sleep that is a direct result of the pain.
20629	Common symptoms of bursitis include: a stiffness or dull ache around the elbow, knee, hip, shoulder, big toe, or other joints; worsening of pain when pressure is applied or when the affected area is moved; warmth or swelling in the affection region; and occasional redness in the skin near the area of the inflamed bursa. Bursitis commonly occurs in the shoulders, elbows, or hips, but may also affect the knees, heels, or the base of the big toe.
20630	The symptoms of hip bursitis include extreme pain in the hips, as well as tenderness of the affected area.
20631	Bursitis of the knee typically begins slowly, and may gradually worsen over time if left untreated. Common symptoms of knee bursitis include: warmth in affected area; swelling or squishy texture of affected knee; as well as pain and tenderness when pressure is applied on the knee.
20632	The signs of calcific bursitis are extreme pain and numbness in the joints, as well as tenderness of the affected areas.
20633	Byssinosis symptoms usually appear as rapidly in the span of couple of hours right after exposure, and the ill-effects may diminish upon leaving the manufacturing site. Hing owever, prolonged exposure to flax, cotton or hemp dusts can eventually cause some permanent scarring of the lungs. Among the key indicators of brown lungs are wheezing, shortness of breath, tightness of the chest and coughing. Smokers are primary candidate of severe impairment as the fiber dusts significantly aggravate the airways and lungs.
20634	Among the most common symptoms of C syndrome include the triangular shaped head, abnormally narrow and pointed forehead, flat nasal bridge, crossed eyes, loose skin, ear abnormalities, bent joints and mental retardation.
20635	Some patients infected with the C. difficile never demonstrate any symptoms, although they remain contagious and can still spread the infection. In symptomatic patients, the infection presents with: nausea; profuse watery diarrhea; severe abdominal pain and cramping; pus or blood in stool; dehydration; and unintended weight loss. In severe cases, Clostridium difficile infections can lead to a number of serious complications, such as colitis and pseudomembranous colitis, both of which are life-threatening disorders characterized by severe inflammations of the colon.
20636	The damage to the blood vessels causes the symptoms of CADASIL; namely migraines, mental and emotional disorders, dementia, stroke-like episodes, and the prevention of normal brain function. A patient who has CADASIL is also in increased risk of heart attack, due to the heart's damaged blood vessels.
20637	The distinguishing signs of cafΘ-au-lait spots are the flat, uniformly hyperpigmented macules that are usually light brown in color. The spots usually appear during the first three years of existence but can also possibly develop at any age. It is largely differentiated from benign marks and freckles by is considerably larger size and irregular shape.
20638	The medical condition is manifested pain in the affected area and organ inasmuch as the calcium deposit causes problems and alteration on how the blood vessels and organ works. Though it may manifest symptoms that includes reduced pulp cavities, lump near the hip, mass near joint, elbow lump, shoulder lump and bulbous tooth roots.
20639	The medical condition is manifested pain in the affected area and organ inasmuch as the calcium deposit causes problems and alteration on how the blood vessels and organ works. Though it may manifest symptoms that includes reduced pulp cavities, lump near the hip, mass near joint, elbow lump, shoulder lump and bulbous tooth roots. short tooth roots
20641	Calciphylaxis is characterised by systemic medical calcification of the arteries such as the calcification of tunica medica. It is also characterized by a small vessel mural calcification with or without endovascular fibrosis, extravascular calcification and vascular thrombosis that may lead to tissue ischaemia.
20644	Among the early, non-specific symptoms of campylobacteriosis is headache, fever and myalgias that may last up to 24 hours while the actual latent period may last from 1-6 days or 2-5 days. Actual symptoms therefore are typically developed in 1-2 days. Actual symptoms include diarrhea, cramps, dysenteria, abdominal pains and fever as high as 40 degrees Celsius. The route of transmission is also a factor on the symptoms. For those who participate in anoreceptive intercourse, the disease may be more localized to the distal end of the colon and can also be called proctocolitis. Symptoms of the disease are similar to those of other diseases. Abdominal pains and tenderness that are localized can be mimicking acute appendicitis.
20645	Symptoms develop one to 10 days (average of three to five days) after ingesting the bacteria characterized by either mild symptoms or severe or acute gastrointestinal illness including mild diarrhea that sometimes maybe blood-tinged. High fever when left uncontrolled may lead to convulsions. Stomach cramps that are very intense which often comes with mild to severe vomiting.
20647	Appearing in early infancy and progressing rapidly, symptoms of Canavan diseases may include mental retardation, feeding difficulties, abnormal muscle tone, loss of previously acquired motor skills, poor head control, and megalocephaly or an abnormally large head. Other symptoms such as paralysis, seizures, and blindness may also arise. Children with this disease are also characterized to be quiet and apathetic and may occur in any ethnic group. The disease is however more frequent among Ashkenazi Jews from Eastern Poland, Lithuania, western Russia and among Saudi Arabians. Studies show that 1/40 individuals of Eastern European (Ashkenazi) Jewish ancestry are carriers.
20648	Cancer symptoms can be divided into three groups: local symptoms, symptoms of metastasis and systemic symptoms. Local symptoms include lumps or swelling, hemorrhage, pain and/or ulceration. Jaundice may also be caused by the compression of surrounding tissues. Enlarged lymph nodes, cough, hemoptysis, hepatomegaly, bone pain, fracture of affected bones and neurological symptoms are among the known symptoms of metastasis. Systemic symptoms meanwhile is comprised of weight loss, fatigue, poor appetite, cacjexia, excessive sweating, specific paraneoplastic phenomena and anemia
20650	Itching, burning, soreness, irritation of the vagina and a whitish or whitish-gray discharge are the common symptoms of yeast infection. The symptoms are similar to that of bacterial vaginosis that women mistake what they have for yeast infection. A study published in the Journal Obstetrics and Gynecology in 2002 revealed that 33 percent of women who were self medicating for yeast infection actually had the disease. Among men, red patchy sores near the head of the penis or on the foreskin, severe itching and/or a burning sensation as well as a whit discharge, which is rare, are the most common symptoms.
20651	The most common symptoms of canine distemper include red and dull eyes, diarrhea and vomiting, seizures, loss of energy and appetite, weight loss, nasal discharges, fever and photophobia. Coughing and shivering may also be observed as well as the thickening of the footpads.
20652	Canker sores are not contagious but it can be very painful causing difficulty in eating and swallowing. Lesions that are either round or oval shaped with a white or yellow center and white border presenting with fever and weariness (lethargy) combined with swollen lymph nodes.
20653	The leg, though it may manifest on the trunk and upper extremities, is the most common location for capillaritis. It never presents on the face. Among the presentations include cayenne-pepper-colored petechiae in lighter-skinned individuals, brown-red or deeply pigmented pepper-like petechiae in dark-skinned individuals and color variations in the lesions due to different stages of blood breakdown product (hemosiderin) reabsorption.
20654	The known signs and symptoms of this disease are as follows: coughing and difficulty in breathing. Aside from the mentioned signs and symptoms, patients may also experience pain in the joints and morning stiffness. When a patient undergoes examination it will show that he has an inflamed MCP joints and rheumatoid nodules, chest auscultation may also show diffuse rales that cannot be removed on coughing or just by taking a deep breath.
20655	The list below shows several known symptoms for Carbohydrate deficient glycoprotein syndrome: Dysmorphic features Hypotonia - weakness of the muscle Psychomotor retardation Strabismus - causes the eyes to be misaligned that result to both eyes looking in different direction. Disease of the liver There may be other symptoms that can be identified by the physician.
20656	Dull headaches are usually the earliest and most common symptom of carbon monoxide poisoning. Other signs include: dizziness, nausea, vomiting, chest pain, confusion, impaired judgment, irritability, and loss of cosciousness. Carbon monoxide poisoning is a very serious condition and can be potentially fatal, especially among individuals who may be sleeping or intoxicated at the time of exposure to carbon monoxide fumes.
20658	Carcinoid tumors are rare and relatively distinct compared to other forms of cancers. They usually grow at a slow rate and hardly become asymptomatic until late in the disease. Even when viewed under a microscope, carcinoid tumors may deceivingly resemble benign growths, even if they have already metastasized. When symptoms do appear, they are often vague and resemble those of other conditions, such as skin flushing, diarrhea, abdominal pain, chest pain, pneumonia, and various other symptoms depending on the location of the tumor.
20660	The list below is the known symptoms for Cardiac amyloidosis: Palpitation/tremor - it the sense of feeling heart beat Swelling/inflammation of legs, ankles, or other parts of the body like inflammation of the abdomen Too much urination at night Exhaustion, decreased motion tolerance Shortness of breath with motion Breathing trouble while lying down
20661	The list below shows the known symptoms of Cardiac arrest: frequently comes first by symptoms of heart attack Heart stoppage Collapse Loss of consciousness Loss of breathing Absent pulse Some of symptoms sighted might not be evident to the patient but might be evident to the doctor/physician only.
20662	The main sign of the sickness is chest pain. Migraine can also occur in this state.
20663	Symptoms of cardiac tamponade includes difficulty of breathing, discomfort is felt when leaning forward or sitting upright, restlessness and anxiety, fainting, palpitations chest pains, pale skin and swelling of the abdomen. Some additional signs that can also be associated with this medical condition are weak pulse, dizziness, low blood pressure and drowsiness.
20664	The cardiofaciocutaneous syndrome is characterized by heart defects, sparse and brittle scalp hair, delayed growth, psychomotor retardation, foot abnormalities, heart malformations, and distinctive facial appearance.
20665	Some people who develop cardiomyopathy may experience no signs and symptoms in the early stages of the disease. But as the condition progresses, signs and symptoms usually appear. Signs and symptoms of cardiomyopathy may include: breathlessness with exertion or even at rest; swelling of the legs, ankles and feet; bloating (distention) of the abdomen with fluid; fatigue; irregular heartbeats that feel rapid, pounding or fluttering; and dizziness, lightheadedness and fainting.
20666	Dysphagia or complexity swallowing Regurgitation of undigested food Coughing, particularly when resting or lying down Weight loss because of insufficient nutrient ingestion Non-cardiac chest pains (NCCP), which can emit to the back, jaw, neck, and arms Several patients also experience heartburn, trouble belching, or recurrent hiccups
20667	There are a number of signs and symptoms associated with CNC including acromegaly,spotted pigmentation, benign tumors and development of blue skin spots.
20668	There are various symptoms and signs of carnitine transporter deficiency including vomiting, stupor, confusion, muscle weakness, excess urinary carnitine, Hypoglycemia or low blood sugar, Cardiomyopathy or weakly pumping heart, Encephalopathy or abnormalities in brain function, and Rhabdomylysis. There are also risks of serious complications like liver problems, heart failure, coma, and even sudden death.
20669	Signs of this deficiency usually start within a few hours from birth. Irregular heartbeat, breathing problems, and seizures are frequently the first symptoms. The disorder can also result to very low ketones levels, as well hypoglycemia or low levels of blood sugar. Other symptoms include the presence of ammonia in blood, heart abnormalities, muscle weakness, and enlarged liver.
20670	Patients suffering from Caroli disease are generally feverish, and may have abdominal pain and bilirubinemia. Test results on liver function may show abnormality, including high levels of alkaline phosphatase. Variceal bleeding can result from portal hypertension related to the disease. Other symptoms are nonspecific, such s vomiting, nausea, and enlarged liver. Patients may not experience symptoms for long periods.
20671	There are three common symptoms of carotenemia; orange skin, yellow skin, and normal eye color, not yellowish like jaundice.
20672	Symptoms and signs of the condition can include neck pain or headache, transient loss of vision, decreased size of the pupil accompanied drooping of upper eyelid, weakness, numbness, talking or speech problems, and ischemic stroke. Patients experiencing critical carotid artery dissection may complain of rare focal neurologic illness, especially involving the cranial nerves and occurring after a significant trauma or impact to the neck.
20673	Most people with the syndrome experience slowly increasing symptoms, which usually begins with a slight ache in the wrist that may extend to the hand and forearm. The most common symptoms of the syndrome include numbness or tingling; pain that radiates or extends from the wrist up to the arm, to the shoulder, or into the fingers or palm; and a feeling of weakness in the hands.
20674	Various symptoms show for patients of this syndrome including an unusually conical head due to craniosynostosis, flat nasal bridge, narrow palate, malformed ears, short or missing toes phalanges, pulmonic stenosis, cardiovascular defects, maldeveloped or small corneas, optic atrophy, growth retardation, low I.Q, and others.
20675	The symptoms an individual will experience depend on the type of Castleman's disease they have. Every person with the disease develops one tumor or more in the body's lymph node tissue. Depending on the type, tumors can develop in areas of the chest, neck, or stomach, as well as experience weight loss, skin rash, fever, and enlarged spleen and liver.
20676	The symptoms associated with the syndrome can vary significantly in severity and range. Although some individuals can have mild or few manifestations that can stay unrecognized, others can have full range of malformations. More specific symptoms include coloboma, ocular hypertelorism, palpebral fissures, and/or some other ocular abnormalities. Other symptoms include anal atresia, small skin tags in outer ears, short stature, congenital heart defect, and cleft palate.
20677	Sore can develop in the area that has been scratched or bitten. This sore may not occur immediately, and it can take three to ten days after being scratched or bitten. Swollen lymph nodes also develop, mostly in glands near the area of scratch or bite. Other symptoms include mild fever, headache, and local infection.
20678	Catatonic schizophrenia has distinguishing psychotic symptoms that include: physical immobility for long periods of time; catatonic stupor in which the patient seems to be completely aware of his/her environment; excessive mobility such as frenzied pacing or flailing; extreme resistance to any communication or instruction; peculiar movements such as odd postures or unusual mannerisms; as well as mimicking movement and speech of another person.
20679	The syndrome's symptoms vary extensively, even within members of one family; it also affects several parts of the human body. Characteristic symptoms and signs include inborn heart defects, cleft palate, learning disabilities, autism, immune deficiency, hearing loss, recurrent fungal or viral infections, and slight differences in features of the face.
20680	Infants born with the syndrome have symptoms of supernumerary, unevenly shaped bone called Hyperphalangy found between the index finger's first bone and the matching bone within the second carpal. Other symptoms include small lower jaw, cleft palate, growth deficiency, malformed ears, cardiac defects, aortic narrowing, and septal defects.
20681	Minor cases of the syndrome can be relatively without symptom, but severe cases can be accompanied with crucial birth defects, incontinence, and neurological impairment. General symptoms include the partial absence of the spine's lower end, abnormalities in the lower vertebral and lower spine, and pelvic abnormalities.
20682	The major symptom of this condition is intense pain, frequently expressed as "burning pain". Other symptoms include shiny skin, skin sensitivity, temperature hypersensitivity, skin changes, bone changes, tissue swelling, excessive sweating, severe sensitivity to touch, red skin, hand swelling, hand tenderness, decreased range of hand and shoulder motion, strength loss, and grooved nails.
20683	The disease's clinical symptoms include recurring headaches, hemorrhagic stroke, seizures, and central neurological deficits. Other symptoms include reddish-purple to red skin lesion, and massive blood vessel tumor.
20684	Common symptoms of the condition include drooping eyelids, visual loss, bulging eyes, and inability to shift eye in particular direction. Other symptoms include chemosis, fever, and noticeable periorbital swelling.
20685	In rare cases, the disease exhibits other symptoms such as an abnormally small head called microcephaly; abnormally small jawbones, also called micrognathia; small eyes, called micropthalmos; and mental retardation.
20686	Symptoms can vary from mild to severe, but a common trait is that all those who have CDG syndrome have problems with coordination and balancing. The symptoms of CDG syndrome vary according to the person's age. During the infant years of 1-3 years old, the syndrome is at its most dangerous phase. Common symptoms are liver dysfunction, retracted nipples, psychomotor development delay, pericardial effusions, lipodystrophic skin, limb joint restriction, and convergent squint. During late infancy and childhood phase, the symptoms include mental retardation and problems with coordination. The child's lower and upper limbs also exhibit motor disability, and they may also develop retinitis pigmentosa. Fever and infection can also trigger fits and epileptic episodes. During this phase, the cerebellar ataxia is also stable. The teenage years bring about slightly milder symptoms, as most major symptoms stabilize at this point. The most evident characteristic during this phase is the skeletal abnormalities, such as pigeon-barreled chests, scoliosis, and atrophy in the legs. During adult years, the cerebellar ataxia stabilizes, as well as the peripheral neuropathy. Mild epilepsy can still occur, and patients tend to have abnormally long extremities. Unfortunately, females do not go through puberty, while the males' development of secondary sexual characteristics take longer than usual.
20687	Celiac disease has no distinguishing clinical symptoms, and most affected patients will usually have general complaints such as abdominal pain, bloating, or intermittent diahhrea. In some cases, affected patients may have no gastrointestinal symptoms at all; while in others, the disease may manifest in subtle ways. Common signs of celiac disease include: anemia, stomach aches, skin rashes, muscle cramps, mouth sores, general weakness, osteoporosis, and stunted growth, among others.
20688	Symptoms of celiac sprue vary and sometimes make it difficult to diagnose those with the disease. In children, failure to thrive is a common symptom, but in all ages, diarrhea, weight loss, and fatigue also seem to be present. However, it must be noted that the symptoms are not always consistent and there may be a complete absence of all symptoms in some patients who have celiac sprue. In some cases, the symptoms are associated with the body's functioning to absorb nutrients, or other symptoms that are not related to bowel problems. Children less than 2 years old exhibit symptoms that closely identify bowel and growth problems not long after they have consumed gluten products. Adults with a mild celiac sprue commonly have anemia or fatigue.
20689	Cellulite appears as dimpled or bumpy skin resembling an orange peel or cottage cheese texture. Severity of symptoms ranges from mild cases wherein cellulite is only visible when the skin is pinched, to severe cases in which the skin appears obviously rumpled and bumpy with expansive peaks and valleys. Cellulite is commonly observed in the buttocks, hips, and thighs, but may also occur in the lower abdomen, breasts, or upper arms. Most adult women have cellulite at some point in their lives.
20690	The syndrome is distinguished by almost symmetrical occurrence of spoon-like hand. There is also occasional mesomelic arm shortening, metacarpal and radio-ulnar synostosis, in addition to disorganized phalanges. The feet are mildly affected. Other symptoms include arm bones fusion, metacarpal fusion, brachymesomelia, numeric rays reduction, short radius, and short ulna.
20692	Indicators can start slowly or abruptly at all ages. Frequently, the only signs are excessive production of urine and extreme thirst. An individual can drink large quantities of fluid to compensate the fluid lost by urination. The favored drink is often cold water. If compensation isn't probable, dehydration may rapidly follow, causing shock and low blood pressure. In children, this condition may interfere with eating, appetite, weight, as well as growth. It can also present vomiting, diarrhea, or fever.
20693	The symptoms commonly found in persons with the disease are sudden paraparesis, dysphagia, fainting spells and double vision. The person may experience sudden paralysis of the body, except for eye movement.
20694	Aside from metamorphosia and photopsia, other symptoms of central serous chorioretinopathy are central scotoma, micropsia, or when objects appear smaller in size than they actually are; farsightedness; and chromatopsia, wherein objects appear to be uncolored. The symptoms can vary and occur in different degrees, although blurry vision is the most dominant and common symptom experienced by patients. Cortisol is also associated with central serous chorioretinopathy, making people who have higher levels of these in their system more prone to the disease. This also explains the relationship of the disease to stress, because cortisol is a hormone released in the body allowing it to cope with stress. Corticosteroids, also known as cortisone, which is used for treating conditions such as allergies and inflammations, can also contribute to central serous chorioretinopathy.
20695	Common signs of central sleep apnea include: episodes of halted breathing during sleep; abnormal breathing while sleeping; abrupt awakenings accompanied by shortness of breath; insomnia or difficulty staying asleep; hypersomnia or excessive daytime sleepiness; momentary shortness of breath at night; and loss of concentration. Other symptoms associated with neurological-related central sleep apnea include: lightheadedness on standing up from a sitting or lying position; swallowing difficulties; as well as numbness or general weakness throughout the body. Additionally, patients with sleep apnea typically snore.
20697	Symptoms of ceramidase deficiency can exhibit themselves when the patient is as early as a few weeks old, or the symptoms can come out during later stages in life. Infants or children who have ceramidase deficiency may also exhibit other symptoms such as motor problems, mental abilities, and difficulties swallowing. Other symptoms of ceramidase deficiency include swollen joints and lymph nodes, arthritis, nodules underneath the skin and sometimes in the lungs or other body parts, vomiting, hoarseness, and shortening of muscles or the joints around tendons. A breathing tube may have to be used for patients of ceramidase deficiency, and in extreme cases, the spleen and liver increase in size.
20698	Symptoms of ceramide trihexosidosis are red spots in the skin, fatigue, and anhidrosis. A number of patients also suffer from gastrointestinal problems due to frequent needs to use the bathroom right after eating. Some patients also report a pain in their hands and feet.
20699	People diagnosed with ceraunophobia exhibit various symptoms when they encounter thunder and lightning; these could be panic attacks, rapid heartbeats, breathing difficulty, nausea, and sweaty palms. These are the most common symptoms although they are not limited to these. When those who have ceraunophobia encounter these, they tend to hide or seek comfort in places in their homes far from windows, such as beneath the bed, the cupboard, or even under the staircase where they cannot see or hear the storm happening outside.
20700	Cercarial dermatitis manifests with the appearance of itchy, reddish, and raised areas on the skin. It typically occurs only on exposed skin areas. The characteristic rash may appear within 48 hours after exposure to the parasite. The discomfort is generally short-lived and the rash vanishes within a few days.
20701	Symptoms of cerebellar hypoplaxia differs with infants and children, and with older children. In infants, the symptoms are commonly unhealthy muscle tone, problems with speech and development, seizures, balance and walking problems, mental retardation, and involuntary movement of the eyes. Older children exhibit symptoms such as hearing impairment, clumsiness, dizzy spells, and headaches.
20702	The main symptoms found in the disease are ataxia and hypotonia. Other conditions meanwhile are recognized as the child grows older, such as mental retardation.
20703	Among the symptoms of developing brain abscesses are headaches, drowsiness, migraine, pain in the neck, confusion and loss of focus or attention.
20705	The symptoms of a cerebral aneurism depend on its size. While it is small, it shows no symptoms, until the time they are large and are about to burst. When the aneurism grows larger, it begins to put pressure on surrounding tissue or nerves. Before a rupture, patients can feel severe headaches, vomiting, nausea, vision impairment, and they can also lose consciousness or even enter into a coma. Other symptoms are paralysis on one side of the face, numbness, and dilated pupils.
20706	The symptoms of cerebral cavernous malformation are chronic headaches, neurological defects such as vision problems, weaknesses in the arms and legs, balance problems, and memory problems. In some cases, patients who have the condition may have no symptoms at all. Cerebral cavernous malformation can also cause seizures, although if the person has more than one cavernous angioma, it may be difficult to tell which one may be causing the seizures. Symptoms also depend on the strength of the angioma walls, and on its location. The cavernous angioma may change in size and will bleed and reabsorb blood, causing changes in symptoms as well. Diagnosis of cerebral cavernous malformation is important because the hemorrhages it can cause may be fatal.
20707	Among the symptoms of the condition are frequent migraines, headache and sudden, severe pain in the different parts of the brain.
20708	The symptoms are an abnormally large head, a slightly protruding forehead, large hands and feet, downslanting eyes, advanced bone age, dysmorphic individuals with macrodolichocephaly, a pointed chin, downslanting palpeberal fissures, and hypertelorism, a condition wherein the distance between the eyes is abnormally long. Behavioral problems are common with those who have cerebral gigantism; this includes irritability, attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), tantrums, obsessions and compulsions, phobias, and impulsive behavior. Other symptoms of the disease include scoliosis, heart or kidney problems, seizures, vision and hearing problems. Jaundice, yellowing of the skin, and poor feeding may also be other symptoms present in infants born with the disease.
20709	The symptoms of cerebral hypoxia depend on the severity of the case. Mild cases produce symptoms such as inattentiveness, uncoordinated movement, and poor judgment, as well as a decrease in short-term memory. Prolonged cerebral hypoxia during mild cases will result in problems with motor control and cognitive disturbances. Symptoms will also be visible physically, such as when the skin turns blue. Increase in heart rate will also be evident. Even more prolonged situations would result in loss of consciousness, fainting, seizures, coma, decreased brain stem reflex, and brain death.
20711	It is crucial to know the warning signs of cerebral thrombosis, which includes sudden weakness or numbness of the leg, arm, or face; unexpected confusion, trouble understanding or speaking; sudden problem with vision in both or one of the eyes; sudden difficulty walking, loss of coordination or balance, dizziness; and abrupt, severe headache without known cause.
20713	The symptoms shown by a person with the disorder are enlarged liver, high amounts of iron in the blood, as well as vision problems. Some patients lack muscle tone and suffer from immobility. Jaundice and gastrointestinal bleeding are also common.
20714	Infants with CTX usually suffer chronic bouts of diarrhea, as well as cataracts and psychomotor retardation. Adults meanwhile show signs of neruologic dysfunctions, premature arteriosclerosis, skin lesions, optic disk paleness, coronary artery diseases, and dementia.
20716	Symptoms of cerumen impaction include partial hearing loss, intense pain, tinnitus, itching, as well as a sensation of fullness in the affected ear.
20717	Cervical cancer may be hard to detect, as its early phases are sometimes asymptomatic. Vaginal bleeding is often the first symptom of cervical cancer. Other symptoms include some pain during sexual intercourse, and vaginal discharge. Symptoms of later stages include abdominal and lung metastases. When the cancer is in its advanced stage, symptoms include pelvic pain, fatigue, loss of appetite, back pain, leg pain, weight loss, heavy bleeding from vagina, single swollen leg, bone fractures, and leaking of urine or feces.
20718	Painful and uncontrollable neck spasms are major signs of cervical dystonia. The condition also causes abnormal neck postures in different directions: the head may tilt forward (anterocollis), backward (retrocollis), or to one side (laterocollis). Additional symptoms include: tremors; headaches; neck pain; enlarged neck muscles; abnormalities in the shape of an infant's head after sleeping on the affected side; shoulder elevation on the affected side; and restricted range of motion.
20719	People affected with the condition feel a stiff and painful neck. They may also feel pain on the shoulder, arm, chest; muscle spasms; abnormal reflexes; difficulty in walking; and lose bladder or bowel control.
20720	The condition does not usually show some signs or symptoms. However, if there are signs or symptoms, these may include a grayish or yellowish vaginal discharge that may also have an odor, frequent and painful urination, painful intercourse, or bleeding of the vagina after intercourse or menopause and between menstrual periods.
20722	The symptoms of Chagas disease depend on the stage of infection. Early stages produce mild symptoms that are usually just swelling in the location of the infection. The infection can stay in the body for as long as 20 years, and over the course of the prolonged infection, more serious and chronic symptoms begin to take place. These include a malformation of the intestines and heart disease. If left untreated, the disease may prove deadly.
20723	A person with a chalazion would first feel the swelling of the eyelid from a matter of days to a few weeks. The swelling is usually left unattended, until it forms a hard lump on the upper eyelid which may grow up to 1/8 of an inch. Pain and itchiness will then be felt occasionally, and are at most times annoying. The affected eyelid may also turn red.
20724	The signs that indicate a person has chancroid are sores and bumps in and around the genital organs. These sores have red borders which will soon be filled with pus and in time ruptures, creating a painful sore. These symptoms are likely to appear in a week's time after being exposed to the bacteria. The symptoms of chancroid are felt more by men rather than by women. Infected men would have sores on their glans, and their sexual organ would look enlarged and always swelling. Meanwhile women infected by the diseases would notice the same symptoms such as sores and blisters particularly around their labia minora.
20726	When one is suffering from Chronic Atrial Tachycardia, he may experience frequent palpitations, light-headedness, chest pains, fainting and consistent panting. At times he may also feel dizzy or have a difficulty in breathing when lying down.
20727	The signs and symptoms of chapped lips appear as mild-to-moderate swelling of the lips and surface skin patches (scaling) with or without cracks (fissures).
20728	A person with Charcot's Disease first experience twitching of muscles, cramps and stiffness, but these are often overlooked as they seem to be normal conditions experienced by people. However, when these conditions persist over a long period of time coupled with weakness in the upper and lower limbs and problematic nasal speech, a doctor may then suspect the person to have the disease. This disease becomes more evident as the person loses control of manual dexterity such as writing and other simple tasks involving the hands. Eventually he will lose the ability to control muscle movements and in time will no longer be able to stand on his own, or even swallow food. The other brain functions however are not affected by the disease.
20729	Persons with Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease usually experience symptoms during adolescence or late childhood. One of the earliest signs of the disease is foot drop, which is caused by the peroneal nerve, one of the affected nerves at the onset of the disease. Claw toes or curled toes may as well be observed, and legs begin to appear like those of a stork or an inverted bottle. Sometimes the person may feel extreme weakness in the arms and hands as well. As the disease progresses, the patient may experience breathing difficulties as well as hearing impairments, loss of vision, stiff neck and pain in the shoulders. Scoliosis begins to develop as well as the malformation of the hip sockets. The patient may also suffer from gastrointestinal problems like chewing, and swallowing. The vocal chords may be affected and start to atrophy. The Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease is further exacerbated by pregnancy and emotional stress thus patients with the disease should avoid being in the said conditions. Also, the chemical substance vincristine, which is used for chemotherapy, has been proven to be hazardous and should not be taken by CMT patients.
20731	Children with Chediak-Higashi syndrome are found to have: jerky movements of the eyes albinism increased lung, skin, and mucous membrane infection Because the Chediak-Higashi syndrome involves the immune system, children with the disease are susceptible to viruses such as Epstein-Barr virus, which can lead to a fatal blood cancer-like illness. Other symptoms of the disease are: poor eyesight mental retardation weakness in the muscles peripheral neuropathy tremor seizures numbness photophobia ataxia Other signals of the Chediak-Higashi syndrome are found after medical examination. The examination results may display signs of jaundice or a swollen liver or spleen. Giant granules in the white blood cells are also to be found in blood smear, and the granules can also be detected in muscles, nerves and skin after biopsy. Platelet count would be suprisingly low, and finally, genetic tests would result to mutations in the CHS1 gene.
20735	Raging from a red, small, flat dot to a larger, bright-cherry-red, round topped bump, cherry hemangiomas may be found on any body location. They may be purple than red in color sometimes and rarely demonstrates a dark brown to an almost black color for a cherry hemangioma lesion.
20736	People with cherubism do not immediately notice signs of the disorder until the cyst-like bones begin to develop. Cherubism is as well linked to other genetic defects such as the Ramon syndrome and sometimes the Noonan sundrome and fragile X syndrome, but this is not always the case. Unlike these disorders, cherubism does not lead to brain problems like mental retardation and learning disabilities.
20737	Patients may feel an unexplained and persistent chest pain or pressure or tightness in the chest. These feelings may also be accompanied with shortness of breath, sweating, nausea, dizziness or pain radiating beyond the chest to one or both arms or neck.
20738	Affected individuals feel a sharp or sometimes dull and gnawing pain and tenderness in their costosternal joints. Pain associated with the condition is usually on the left side of the breastbone. Symptoms of the condition may also include pain when taking deep breaths or when coughing, and difficulty in breathing.
20739	Signs and symptoms depend on the type and severity of condition and may occur only in adulthood. However, they usually occur during infancy. affected persons may experience headaches. Severe types of the condition can also include myelomeningocele. Affected individuals with a very severe form of Chiari malformation, usually die in infancy. In such cases, the brain has no normal development.
20740	This disease begins with the appearance of red sores and blisters around the body, starting with the face and arms. Prior to this the virus has already thrived in the body for 10-21 days and once developed, they can be highly contagious especially to those who have not experienced the disease yet. Once the disease has developed, lesions begin to form in the different parts of the body, which are made up of thin-walled vesicles that contain fluid inside. As the vesicles mature the fluid becomes cloudy and cracks open, leaving a crust. The fluid is very contagious until the lesions heal, and the crusts fall off after a week. But new lesions keep on forming during the span of the disease, and will only cease once the virus dies and all the lesions crust over.
20741	The first signs of Chikungunya are fever rising up to 39░C, painful arthritis in multiple joints and petechial or maculopapular rashes on the trunk and limbs. Headache, conjunctival injection and mild photophobia are also experienced. After a couple of days, the fever drops abruptly but the other symptoms become excruciatingly debilitating and would last for around 5 to 7 days. Patients however recover from the disease after 5 to 15 days or up to 2.5 months depending on their age. Older patients tend to take longer recovery than the younger ones. Dermatological and other problems also occur when one suffers from Chikungunya, and among these include: nasal blotchy erythema freckle-like spots on the face lichenoid eruption on photodistributed areas multiple aphthous-like ulcers in the crotum and axilla vesiculobullous lesions subungual hemorrhage cephalgia lumbago vomiting haemetemesis and epistaxis
20742	Symptoms of the disease are weak cardio-pulmonary organs, difficulty in breathing, paleness and turning blue during an attack.
20743	Children diagnosed with CCD exhibit normal growth and development during his first two years, thus he obtains "normal development of age-appropriate verbal and nonverbal communication, social relationships, motor, play and self-care skills" like other normal children. However, as he grows older, the skills he acquired cease to exist especially in the following areas: language and receptive language skills social and self-care skills renal and bladder control motor and play skills They also lose normal function in the following: communication social interaction repetitive behavior and interest
20744	Children affected by the disease show the same signs as that of leukemia. These include paleness, easily acquiring bruises, weakness and muscle pain. Other cases meanwhile have progressed from hemolytic anemia.
20745	Symptoms for childhood nephrotic syndrome manifests as swelling or edema around the eyes every morning upon waking up which will later last the whole day. Swelling in the belly, ankles, and feet will also show. Other symptoms may also include the child becoming more and more tired and become more irritable, loss appetite and looks pale.
20746	Patients may have a severe deterioration in their ability to socially and regularly function. They commonly experience hallucinations, delusions, disorganized thinking, disruptive behaviors, academic problems, and delayed development.
20748	Apart from the common pains mentioned above, people with Chinese restaurant syndrome also suffer from more serious symptoms such as chest pains, palpitations and swelling of the throat. However, CRS can be treated by consuming sufficient amount of Vitamin B6.
20749	Chlamydia can be acquired through unsafe sex mainly through anal sex. It can also be obtained through oral sex and may thrive in the throat. Symptoms are not easily felt by infected people, but for some women, among the signs they experience are abdominal pain, back pain, fever, profuse bleeding, nausea and pain during intercourse. By this time the infection has already spread through the cervix and urethra, and might as well reach the rectal area. Some women also abnormal vaginal discharge and a burning feeling during urination. Infected males meanwhile may experience a penis discharge as well as burning sensations when urinating.
20752	One of the most common signs of cholangicarcinoma is jaundice. This yellowing of the skin and eyes is a result of the blocked bile ducts caused by the tumor. Other symptoms are generalized itching, pain in the abdomen, weight loss and fever. Sometimes patients experience excruciating pain when the tumor develops outside the bile ducts. Patients with the said disease often exhibit an obstructive image of their liver after undergoing a blood test of liver function. This picture of the liver often shows increased levels of bilirubin, gamma glutamyl transferase, and alkaline phosphate.
20753	Among the symptoms of Primary Sclerosing Cholangitis are: Tiredness Jaundice Extreme itchiness Malabsorption of fat and other proteins Signs of cirrhosis Progressive cholangitis
20754	Patients with cholecystitis usually feel extreme pain at the scapular region, as well as fever, nausea and vomiting. Other signs of the disease include shock and jaundice, which indicate that cholecystitis has already done complications suchas ascending cholangitis and gallstone ileus. A person with cholecystitis may also suffer from diarrhea and extreme abdominal pain.
20756	The main symptom of cholera is diarrhea. This diarrhea is so massive that the patient needs to take oral rehydration therapy or else he will die of dehydration.
20757	Cholestasis can be diagnosed after a patient displays the following symptoms: Dark urine Pale stools Itchiness Jaundice
20758	Oftentimes, the only symptom of cholestasis of pregnancy is intense itching specifically on the palms and soles of the feet, which may be intolerable during night time. It is usually experienced during the third trimester of pregnancy. Other symptoms also include dark-colored urine, light-colored stool, yellow eyes or skin, or abdominal pain.
20762	Patients with the disease usually complain about pain in the joints, especially in the elbows, knees and hips.
20763	Chondrodermatitis nodularis helicis or CNH is usually located on the upper concave surfaces of the ear, where extremely tender and small skin-colored lumps are seen there and might sometimes be crusty or slightly scaly at the center of the lesion.
20765	The signs that a person has chondroectodermal dysplasia include congenital heart defects, pre-natal tooth eruption, fingernail dysplasia, post-axial polydactyly, short ribs, deformed wrist bones and short limbed dwarfism.
20768	Individuals suffering from the condition feel an increasing pain in the knees you walking up or down a flight of stairs. They may also feel pain when kneeling or squatting. A grating or grinding sensation is felt when extending the knee.
20769	Chondrosarcoma may show no symptoms during its early stages, but as it advances signs become noticeable, among of which are: Bone lump Bone mass Extreme pain in the bones Localized swelling
20772	The effects of this disease include behavioral changes, muscle deterioration, epilepsy and neuronal degradation. Symptoms begin to be noticeable when an affected person reaches the age of 35.
20773	Symptoms of choriocarcinoma include profuse vaginal bleeding, chest pains, frequent coughing up blood, sudden increase of ▀-hCG levels and when the lungs have various infiltrates of different shapes after an X-ray. Testicular neoplasm meanwhile occurs in male patients.
20774	Persons with chorioretinitis usually experience blurring eyesight, minimal pain and constricted pupils.
20778	Chromosomal translocations can be detected by the presence of congenital abnormalities possessed by an infant. Hereditary conditions are also signs of chromosomal problems.
20779	Among the symptoms of Chromosome 15q partial deletion are: Mental retardation Small head Widgely spaced eyes Prenatal growth retardation Widgely spaced eyes Limb anomalies Triangular face
20781	The symptoms of this disease include congenital heart problems, defects in the palate, autism, retardation, mild facial deformities and recurrent fungal or viral infections due to a poor immune system. Some patients in this condition may also suffer from kid problems, autoimmune disorders and higher risks of having mental illnesses. The microdeletions in this particular chromosomal region are linked with schizophrenia and are usually found in schizophrenic patients. Other symptoms of this syndrome include: Hypocalcemia Feeding problems Renal issues Hearing loss with craniofacial syndromes Growth hormone deficiency Laryngotracheosophageal anomalies Seizures Skeletal problems
20782	The disorder shows signs and symptoms that usually develop slowly or suddenly. Such symptoms may include a weakness of the muscle and fatigue, weight loss and decreased appetite, hyperpigmentation, low blood pressure, hypoglycemia, nausea, diarrhea or vomiting, irritability, or depression. Signs and symptoms of acute adrenal failure may also include lower back pain as well as pain in the abdomen or legs, severe vomiting and diarrhea that lead to dehydration, low blood pressure, or loss of consciousness.
20783	People with chronic berylliosis commonly experience problems such as shortness of breath, rapid weight loss and pale skin and eyes. This disease is an allergic reaction to exposure to beryllium materials. It causes lung tissue malformations as well as enlargement of the lymph nodes. Patients with chronic berylliosis are sickly, and the disease remains with them for the rest of their lives. Beryllium dust when inhaled form granulomas, or small inflammatory nodules in the lungs. These granulomas decrease the lungs' diffusion capacity leading to deformities in the said organ.
20784	Individuals suffering from a chronic cough have runny or stuffy noses, or sense a liquid running down the back of the throat. They may also experience wheezing and shortness of breath, heartburn or a sour taste in the mouth, or coughing up blood in rare cases.
20785	The signs and symptoms of the condition depend on the specific type. Chronic migraine may be affected with moderate to sever pulsating or throbbing pain on one side of the head, which may also include nausea or vomiting, sensitivity to light and sound. Chronic tension-type headache hurts both sides of the head.
20786	Affected individuals feel pain while exercising. During exercise, their affected limb feels an intense pressure or fullness, tightness, numbness or tingling, and weakness. Severe cases show signs of footdrop due to damaged nerves of the legs. Patients may also sometimes experience swelling or bulging resulting from a muscle hernia.
20787	CFS is a long-term fatigue which may last up to six months and may recur even after ongoing efforts. It is not relieved by sufficient rest and hampers a person to gather enough energy to do his daily tasks. Other symptoms include: postexertional malaise disturbed sleep memory dysfunction muscular pain different types of headaches sore throat tender lymph nodes in the neck and armpits The symptoms of CFS vary from one patient to another. However, CFS can be a very devastating condition like other chronic problems such as multiple sclerosis, rheumatoid arthritis, lupus and congestive heart failure.
20791	Signs and symptoms of chronic kidney failure are oftentimes attributed to other illnesses and may only be appear when irreversible damage has already occurred. Such signs and symptoms may include high blood pressure, unexplained weight loss, nausea or vomiting, and anemia.
20792	A person can be diagnosed of having CLL without suffering from symptoms after taking a blood test. A CLL positive test result shows a high white blood cell count, but as the disease develops CLL makes other body organs bloat and swell, like the lymph nodes, liver, and spleen.
20793	Chronic lymphocytic thyroiditis progresses gradually. The signs and symptoms are associated with those of an underactive thyroid gland that depend on the severity of hormone deficiency. Early symptoms such as fatigue and sluggishness are not usually noticed. But as the condition progresses, signs and symptoms may be noticed such as increased sensitivity to cold, constipation, pale, dry skin, hoarse voice, an elevated blood cholesterol level, unexplained weight gain. If untreated, the signs and symptoms become severe, which may result to an enlarged thyroid gland or goiter.
20794	Signs of having CMS include ailments such as headache, tinnitus, breathlessness, sleep disturbance, palpitations, anorexia, mental confusion and dilation of veins. It is meanwhile diagnosed by laboratory tests ranging from Hb>200g/L, Hct>65%, as well as aterial oxygen saturation of <85%.
20795	The symptoms can differ depending on cancer stage before treatment starts. Early signs include weight loss, appetite loss, fever, fatigue, fullness or pain under the rib's left side, and excessive sweating when sleeping. Advanced symptoms include anemia, breath shortness, anemia, pale skin, fatigue, easy bleeding, frequent infections, joint pain, bone pain, bruising, stroke, and petechiae.
20796	In the early stages of the disease, may not have symptoms. However, a number of people become weak and fatigued, lose weight, lose appetite, develop fever, night sweats, and observe a feeling of being full due to enlarged spleen. In its progressive stage, patients become sicker due to decreased number of the platelets and red blood cells, and leads to bruising, paleness, and bleeding.
20797	Signs of the condition are determined through the location and extent of the inflammation. This inflammation likely has an autoimmune origin. Common symptoms include skin lesions that are purple or red in color, papule, and located on hands, legs, or other parts; a change in color of the fingers, such as blue toes or fingers; tissue death because of deficient oxygen, tenderness or pain in the region, ulcers that don't heal, skin redness; abdominal pain; joint pain; numbness or tingling in leg, arm, and other area; fever; and decrease or change in the function of a leg, arm, or other body part.
20798	Since the disorder itself doesn't have specific symptoms, it's generally identified when the infection occurs. Some individuals experience fever, as well as painful sores around the anus and mouth. The most common signs of the disorder is low neutrophils blood level and recurring infections.
20799	Early signs of the illness include occasional coughing, daily cough in the mornings, slight breath shortness, and severe cough due to respiratory infection. Some people experience extreme weight loss due to breath shortness that makes eating hard. Fragile parts of the lungs can rupture allowing air leak from lung to pleural space, known as pneumothorax.
20800	Persons experiencing chronic pelvic pain feel a severe and steady pain, intermittent pain, dull aching, sharp pains or cramping, and pressure or heaviness deep within the pelvis. Additionally, they may also feel pain during intercourse, while having a bowel movement, or just sitting down. Standing for long periods can cause the pain to intensify and may only be relieved when lying down.
20802	The condition produces lesions in the bone. These lesions may be symptom-free; however, in most cases they cause pain, skin redness, and swelling. This pain may be somewhat severe and can restrict the activities of a child. Painful attacks can mean that the child won't be able to attend classes or might require a hospital stay for treatment.
20803	Symptoms typically develop in a very gradual manner. Initial signs can include fatigue, headache, frequent hiccups, vomiting, nausea, generalized itching, and unintentional loss of weight. Later symptoms may include blood in stools or in vomit, decreased alertness, drowsiness, delirium, confusion, decreased sensation, cramps, seizures, and white crystals present on or in the skin.
20804	Individuals with chronic sinusitis experience breathing difficulty through the nose, frequent headaches, and facial pain or pressure behind the eyes. They may also have frequent yellow or greenish discharge from their noses or drainage at the back of their throats.
20805	Symptoms can be mild at first. They can also happen only occasionally. Later, they can be more frequent and worse. The disorder is characterized by throat tightness, spontaneous vocal spasms, and/or continual voice hoarseness. There are times when affected people must make conscious effort when talking. A most often sign of the disorder is an abrupt, momentary interruption or lapse of one's voice.
20806	The patient experiences constant or intermittent pain in the genital area lasting for months. Such pain may be characterized by burning, soreness, itching, stinging, rawness, painful intercourse, and throbbing. The pain may instantly vanish. The vulvar tissue may look minimally inflamed or swollen but oftentimes appears normal.
20807	Common symptoms of the syndrome include fever, inflammation of nasal passage or sinus in asthmatic patient, and weight loss. Fatigue is also common, and sometimes chest pain, breath shortness, and cough as one's lungs become affected. Nodules can also appear on extremities. Belly pain and diarrhea can be experienced with abdomen inflammation.
20808	The common symptoms and signs of Chylous ascites are abdominal swelling or distention caused by the massive quantity of milky-white fluid inside the abdominal cavity. The pressure caused on the stomach by the swollen abdomen leads to appetite loss.
20809	Some common symptoms of cicatricial pemphigoid include inflamed eyes, red eyes, mucous membrane blistering and scarring, and red swollen mucous membrane.
20810	Ciguatera fish poisoning will show symptoms within two to twelve hours after ingestion. Signs will include vomiting, nausea, diarrhea, and abdominal cramps. Shortly after the symptoms have developed, a person starts to experience strange sensations that can include headache, metallic taste in mouth, feeling that teeth loose, confusing cold and hot temperatures, and low heart rate and blood pressure.
20811	Mild cinchonism symptoms include vasodilation, headache, sweating, tinnitus, nausea, dizziness, hearing impairment, color perception disturbance, and blurred vision. More severe manifestations include diarrhea, vomiting, deafness, abdominal pain, blindness, and cardiac rhythm disturbances.
20812	During its first stages cirrhosis appears to be asymptomatic. As it develops, fatigue, weight loss, hypertension, constant bruising and jaundice begin to be evident.
20813	The two forms of Citrullinemia have different symptoms and signs. Type I or Classic Citrullinemia typically turns evident a few days after birth. Infants with the disorder may appear normal, but when ammonia builds up they experience increasing lack of energy, vomiting, poor feeding, loss of consciousness, and seizures. Type II mainly affects one's nervous system, which causes restlessness, confusion, memory loss, seizures, abnormal behaviors, and coma.
20814	Among the symptoms of gonorrhea are swelling of the genital areas, pus, abdominal pain, and pain during intercourse. Flu-like symptoms are common as well. When not treated, gonorrhea can cause complications such as the Pelvic Inflammatory disease (PID), as well as other infections in different organs of the body.
20815	The signs of Clarkson's disease include generalized swelling, low blood albumin level, low blood pressure and high levels of abnormal proteins.
20816	Patients with claudication may feel pain during exercise, intermittent pain, pain when resting, or have discolored skin or ulcerations.
20817	The condition is noticeable at birth. Besides its distinguishing physical appearance, there are no other signs noticed.
20819	People with cleidocranial dysplasia generally show sloping and narrowed shoulders due to the absent or underdeveloped collar bones. In some cases, shoulders meet at the center of the body. Other symptoms include late closing of spaces in between skull bones, late closing of skull sutures, square skull, late teeth eruption, low nasal bridge, and abnormality of permanent teeth.
20820	Most people with the condition do not experience any symptoms but when they occur, it is usually because the blood is leaking backward through the valve. Symptoms vary from person to person, which may include a racing or irregular heartbeat, dizziness or lightheadedness, breathing difficulty oftentimes when lying flat or during physical exertion, fatigue, and chest pain that is not associated with a heart attack or coronary artery disease.
20821	Symptoms of the condition differ from person to person. Some may have show obvious symptoms while others only feel miserable or unhappy without knowing the reason. Symptoms may include a loss of interest in normal daily activities, sleeping problems, irritability, restlessness, being easily annoyed, feeling fatigued or weak, feeling worthless, loss of interest in sex, suicidal thoughts or behavior, and unexplained physical problems, such as back pain or headaches.
20823	Patients with the disease show flu-like symptoms such as fever, chills and coughing, as well as headache and weakness. Soon after, they may experience diarrhea that can lead to dehydration.
20825	Attacks begin abruptly and lass about fifteen minutes to three hours. It can start with itching nostril or watery nostril discharge. Severe pain on same side of one's head follows, spreading around eye area. After attacks, eyelid on same side of headache droops, and pupil constricts. Recurring headaches several times each week.
20826	The majority of infections within pregnancy are 'asymptomatic'. In a few cases, signs and symptoms of the disorder include enlarged liver, enlarged spleen, small, head, developmental delay, fetal ascites, fetal hydrops, and anomalies in brain development. Affected children show signs of eye anomalies, liver dysfunction, growth retardation, or splenomegaly.
20827	Black lung typically doesn't cause symptoms. Although, many people having the disease easily experience cough and shortness of breath due to also having airway illness, such as emphysema or bronchitis. Conversely, severe phases of progressive massive fribrosis result to cough and frequent immobilizing breath shortness.
20828	Signs of the condition start as blurry vision, typically evident when the other eye is closed. Frequently, the eye that's not affected compensates for vision loss of the other; however, the result is some loss of parallax and depth perception. Sight deterioration can start in either peripheral or central vision. Other symptoms include floaters and photopsia, as well as sensitivity to light, and white patch on pupil. Pain can also develop resulting from retinal detachment or if fluid isn't able to correctly drain from eye.
20830	The majority of people that have acute primary occidioidomycosis are without symptoms. If symptoms do appear, they come one to three weeks after an individual becomes infected. Symptoms are typically mild, including chills, fever, cough, chest pain, and at times breath shortness. The cough can produce sputum. Its progressive form has symptoms that include appetite loss, weight loss, strength loss, and mild fever.
20831	The syndrome's most common manifestations include dwarfism or extreme growth deficiency, small head, underweight, mental deficiency, and unsteady gait. Other symptoms include seizures, optic atrophy, farsightedness, slender nose, thin skin, cool feet and hands, thin hair, small pelvis, weakness, incoordination, etc.
20832	The symptoms of the celiac disease are diarrhea, delayed development, and failure to thrive. Gastrointestinal as well as absorption-related problems are present in infants with the disease.
20833	The most common symptoms of this disorder include widely-spaced eyes, undersized upper jaw bone, eyelid folds that are downslanting, and unusually prominent brow. Less typical symptoms include seizures, thick calvarium, small head, hypoplastic sinuses, and dilated lateral ventricles.
20834	The condition may be manifested by difficulty in feeding and recurrent respiratory illnesses during infancy, hypotonia or reduced muscle tone, abnormal joint looseness or laxity, mental retardation, and late bone age. Additionally, affected children and infants usually have short "pinkies" or fifth finger, as well s underdeveloped toes or the absence of nails. Other abnormalities are also evident, such as facial and head area malformations that result to the coarse face appearance.
20835	The most usual indications include light-sensitive, red, painful eyes, blurry vision, poor balance, vomiting, nausea, vertigo, fatigue, weight loss, fever, and hearing loss that can turn permanent and profound. In rare cases, symptoms include rash, arm pain, chest pain, breath shortness, and enlarged lymph nodes.
20836	Individuals with the syndrome may manifest some different symptoms including postnatal developmental deficiency, decreased tone of muscles, low birth weight, weakness, and obesity of the body trunk that starts mind-childhood. In rare cases, individuals may have colobomata, small eye, seizures, cardiac defects, and mild cutaneous syndactyly. The general appearance of the syndrome is obesity accompanied with elongated/thin legs and arms.
20837	The disorder may manifest different signs including anemia due to low red blood cell level; fatigue; jaundice with persistent yellow skin, eyes, and mucous membrane; and/or coldness and sweating of toes and fingers with reddish or bluish skin discoloration. The uncommon feature of the disease is that during normal temperature of the body, hemolysis doesn't happen, but rather, just at low temperatures.
20838	Cold contact urticaria is manifested by redness, swelling, and itchiness of skin within a few minutes after being exposed to cold stimulus. Burning sensation can be one prominent feature. Swelling is contained to body parts that have come in contact with cold stimulus. Symptoms become worse when the exposed region is warmed. Other symptoms include swelling of hand when holding cold objects, lip swelling when eating a cold food, as well as generalized symptoms of headache, flushing, abdominal pain, and fainting in areas that are largely affected.
20839	Children with cold sores have blisters on the sides of the mouth. When these blisters get swollen the may burst and turn out to be open lesions with pus spurting out. Pain can be felt whenever the sores are touched.
20841	The baby exhibits predictable crying episodes, which usually occurs on the same time of day each day; usually happening in the late afternoon or evening. Intense crying that sometimes seem to be impossible to comfort, resulting to a flushed red face due to continuous crying. Persistent crying usually combined with curled up legs, tensed abdominal muscles, and tightened fists.
20842	People with colitis experience cramps on lower abdomen. Other symptoms include recurrent loose bowel movements accompanied with blood and rectal bleeding, fever, diarrhea, and loss of appetite resulting to excessive loss of weight. If chronic inflammatory bowel disease is further developed, then the occurrence of neck and joint pains, kidney and liver problems, as well pain in the eye and skin rashes manifests.
20843	The most common symptom is chronic diarrhea. This diarrhea is non-bloody and watery, and frequently begins somewhat abruptly. Diarrhea can become constant, or with worsening-improving-worsening in repeated cycle. Other symptoms include abdominal cramps or pain, abdominal bloating, nausea, dehydration, fecal incontinence, and modest loss of weight.
20844	Individuals with a collapsed lung may feel chest pain on the side of the affected lung, tightness in the chest, a rapid heart rate, or shortness of breath, which depends on the severity of the collapse.
20845	Signs of the disorder can be severe or mild depending on the gap's location and size. If only a little portion of the iris is missing, vision can be normal; however, if a big part of the optic nerve or retina is not present, symptoms can be poor vision and a huge part of visual field would be missing. There are times when the eye might be decreased in size, called microphthalmia. Children with ocular coloboma also have deformities in other parts of their body.
20846	A remarkable change in bowel habits is expected such as diarrhea and constipation or change in stool consistency usually occurring for couple of weeks. There is presence of blood in the stool and bleeding in the rectum. Cramps, gas, and other describable abdominal discomfort that continuously persists; fatigue and unexplainable weight loss are some of the symptoms of colon cancer.
20847	Rectal bleeding Blood in the stool Constipation or diarrhea Pain or obstruction of bowel
20848	Colon polyps usually do not cause problems so experts only recommend regular screening. Sometimes however, the condition shows signs and symptoms such as rectal bleeding, a change in bowel habits, and abdominal pain.
20849	The condition usually has mild symptoms but can become severe. Most people with the condition feel pain on the left side of the abdomen. Affected individuals has low-grade fever, blood in the stool, diarrhea, nausea, and vomiting.
20850	Symptoms for this condition largely differ on individuals, depending on what colors he/she can differentiate. There are some patients who have normal vision while others could not see colors, only black, white and gray.
20851	Individuals that are infected with this virus usually develop stage 2 fever and usually has an incubation of 4 days after the tick bite. Initial symptoms include light sensitivity, generalized malaise, pain behind the eyes, muscle and abdominal pain, and nausea.
20852	Most affected individuals have not experienced any symptoms, which when they occur depends on the size and location of the cancer in the large intestine. Those who experience symptoms may notice a change in their bowel habits more than a couple of weeks, blood in the stool, or bleeding of the rectum. Others also experience cramps, gas, or pain in the abdomen.
20853	Individuals who are in a coma have closed eyes. Their limbs do not respond to any stimuli except for reflex movements.
20854	People who suffer this condition usually develop extremely high cholesterol level or triglyceride levels during the early teenage years. The may remain to be abnormally high throughout the entire life span of the patient, which accounts to the increased risk of early development of coronary artery disease and heart attacks. Chest pain or angina may typically occur.
20855	Symptoms associated with common cold typically appear on the first to the third day following cold virus exposure. Clinical symptoms include, cough, runny and stuffy nose, mild body aches, sneezing, fatigue, itchy throat and watery eyes. The discharges from the patient nose may appear thicker, usually yellow or green in color.
20856	The most common symptoms this medical condition includes abdominal pain, vomiting, weight loss, bloating, nausea, and diarrhea. This disease usually appear in kids over 10 years.
20857	Among the signs of CAP are fever, chills and shortness of breath, sputum, headaches and loss of appetite. The disease is not immediately recognized since the symptoms do not directly indicate the onset of the CAP.
20858	Among the symptoms associated with compartment syndrome is pain that is usually aggravated by sudden stretching of the muscle group, parethesia, as well as paralysis of the limbs. Patients are usually pulseless.
20859	The main symptoms of this condition involve intense pain that is usually described as a burning sensation. Other symptoms associated include skin sensitivity, changes in the hair and nail growth, joint stiffness and damage. Atrophy or muscle spasm may also be experience as well as difficulty in movement of the affected area.
20860	Persons who are suffering from complicated grief may extremely focus on their loss and reminders of the loved one, intensely long for the deceased, preoccupied with their sorrow, depressed, and other debilitating feelings that impair or disrupt their daily lives.
20861	Individuals with the disorder often attempt to gain back their losses from gambling. They gamble especially when they feel extreme emotions and do it only for the thrill than winning. If they don't gamble, they feel irritable and restless but feel guilty or remorseful after gambling. They also tend to lie to hide their gambling habits and may borrow money or resort to stealing to be able to gamble.
20862	Homes of people with compulsive hoarding syndrome have stacks of stuff on most surfaces in the house such as stairways, desks, stoves, countertops, or sinks. They may even spread their clutter in the yard, garage, or vehicles when there is no more space in the house. They are so preoccupied with their collection prohibiting them from socializing with family and friends.
20863	Individuals with the disorder regularly consume large amounts of food compared with other similar situations. They may also manifest various behavioral and emotional signs and symptoms such as rapid eating during binge episodes, depression, anxiety, hoarding food and hiding empty food containers, frequent dieting with no weight loss, and frequent eating alone.
20864	Compulsive sexual behavior symptoms may be chronic or intense. Individuals with the behavior often indulge in sex to escape from other problems, such as anxiety, loneliness, depression, or stress but cannot achieve emotional fulfillment. They may also engage in risky sexual behavior.
20865	Symptoms include repeated skin picking anywhere in the body most of the time in the face, strong itch or urge that can only be relieved by picking the skin resulting to pleasure and gratification when skin picking. The feeling is then followed by depression after damage on the skin due to intense skin picking. Pickers are aware of the action that they are doing but they are unable to control the urge.
20866	Individuals with kleptomania cannot resist the urge to steal in order to soothe their feelings of anxiety, tenseness, or being aroused. After stealing however, they feel guilty, remorseful, and afraid of being arrested. They usually steal from public places often for things that have no value for him or her.
20867	An individual with concussion may show signs of confusion and amnesia. Symptoms of the condition may not manifest immediately such as mood and cognitive disturbances, sensitivity to light and noise, and sleeping disturbances. Other symptoms may be a headache, dizziness, ringing in the ears, slurred speech, and nausea or vomiting. The condition may also nonverbal symptoms such as listlessness, irritability, change in eating or sleeping patterns, loss of balance, and lack of interest.
20868	Violent and confrontational behavior causing harm to other individuals or animals; behavior includes bullying or intimidating others, which usually results to fights. Destructive conduct resulting to damage or loss of property example includes fire setting or intentional damage to the property of others. Committing acts of deceit like theft or breaking into someone's house. Violating serious prohibitions such as staying out late at night when not allowed or always being absent in school without valid reasons.
20869	Symptoms experienced with conductive hearing loss include muffled hearing, hearing ringing or roaring sounds, ear pain, irritation and itching, pus leakage resulting from an injury or irritation.
20870	Technically referred to as condyloma acuminata, the genital warts are characterized as small growths that sometimes resemble the feature of a cauliflower.
20871	Physical inspection would naturally include a close examination of the genitalia to check the symptoms of condyloma acuminatum and would require good lighting. The warts are characterized by discrete papillary growth, with tiny and slightly raised areas that can be easily felt and seen on the cervix and vagina of the patient.
20872	Among the most common indicators of cone dystrophy include the progressive constriction of the person's peripheral vision, sensitivity to bright lights as well as marked inability to distinguish color differences. Visual acuity may also gradually deteriorate as well as evidence of dystrophy in the eye pigment epithelium.
20873	Among the common indicators of congenital adrenal hyperplasia may vary from mild cases to severe one can include severe acne, fatigue, shorter height, low blood pressure, high blood cholesterol, obesity, low bone density as well as abnormally slow recovery from infections.
20874	The medical symptoms that can be associated with congenital afibrinogenemia includes bleeding umbilical cord , bruises, hematomas, hemopthysis, blood in the urine, hemorrhage in central nervous system, excessive bleeding after an injury, nosebleed, impaired blood clotting, prolonged bleeding time.
20875	The first symptoms of the disease include reduced or blurry vision. After a few weeks, edema-liked clusters fibers will start to develop in the eye, taking over the retina and causing pain and irritation.
20876	An infant suffering from congenital amputation usually have a missing portion or entire limb.
20877	There are no physical symptoms that can be associated to congenital antithrombin III deficiency. However, for homozygote deficient neonates, they may display purpura fulminans, which is a type of embolic lesions that develops on the skin. Infants usually appear normal and usually don't have any symptoms unless there are other existing medical conditions.
20880	Congenital deafness can be difficult to distinguish during infancy. However, a few good indications include difficulty in hearing conversations, inability to respond to different types of sounds and would naturally have difficulty in learning to speak.
20881	Infants suffering from congenital diaphragmatic hernia frequently show signs of a barrel-shaped chest, scaphoid abdomen, and several symptoms of respiratory distress such grunting respirations, retractions, and cyanosis.
20882	Congenital erythropoietic porphyria primary symptom include extreme photosensitivity that often leads to blistering, increased hair growth and severe scarring. Skin may be seriously damaged due to bacteria as well as the risk of possible loss of fingers and facial features due to phototoxic damage.
20883	Among the identified symptoms of congenital facial diplegia include acute facial paralysis, the lack of expression as well as the inability of the baby to smile. Other newborns also display the inability to suck.
20884	Clinical symptoms may include difficulty in feeding the baby, shortness of breath, respiratory infections, sweating, cyanosis, heart murmur and stunted growth.
20885	Congenital heart septum defect has the following symptoms: enlarged heart, poor appetite, asymptomatic, gets tired easily, swollen abdomen and legs, palpitations, irregular heartbeat, high blood pressure, difficulty in breathing, frequent respiratory-related infections, bluish lips, skin and fingernails.
20886	Symptoms for congenital hepatic fibrosis hepatomegaly, evidence of some hypersplenism, experience of abdominal pain particularly on the upper right quadrant of the body. Abnormalities are usually diagnosed after the infant's birth.
20887	Among the medical symptoms that can be associated with herpes simplex virus include blisters, meningitis, rash, encephalitis, infection of the central nervous system, eye discharges, cough, blotchy skin, pallor, abdominal swelling, seizures, enlarged spleen, poor feeding, tremors, jaundice, rapid breathing, shock and bleeding tendency.
20888	Ligaments of the hip joint are loose and stretched usually manifested by different lengths of the legs, uneven thigh skin folds, and less mobility or flexibility in the affected side. Limping, toe-walking and a waddling "duck-like" gait are often manifested by children of the walking stage affected with the condition.
20889	Among the prevalent signs and symptoms of congenital hypothyroidism include jaundice, hypotonia, hoarse cry, constipation, poor weight and stunted growth, abnormally large fontanelles, umbilical hernia, developmental delay, excessively dry and mottled skin and goiter.
20890	In congenital ichthyosis, the skin is severely thickened with some large and shiny plates of what is known ass hyperkeratotic scales already evident at birth. The lower eyelids of the eyes are averted and the lips display severe traction. Infant will also suffer from temperature deregulation and metabolic abnormalities.
20891	Patients who suffer with suffer such disorder are likely to inflict injury on themselves in varying ways that would normally be avoid by feeling pain. Among the key indicators of congenital insensitivity to pain with anhidrosis are painless injuries, lack of pain sensation, scarring and infection of the tongue, bone fractures, and joint deformities.
20892	Most infants pass meconium naturally but subsequently also present with a marked history of chronic constipation. Among children, the symptoms of congenital megacolon include constipation, abdominal distensions, foul smelling stools, and evident.
20893	Symptoms associated with congenital mesoblastic nephroma include enlarged kidneys and distorted kidneys, detection of kidney tumors, premature labor, abdominal mass, asymptomatic and polyhuramnios.
20894	The three main symptoms of congenital microvillus atrophy primarily include watery diarrhea, failure to thrive and electrolye imabalance.
20895	Among the usual symptoms associated with congenital myopathy include rigid and stiff muscles, slow walking, swallowing, and talking. It also comes with distinct muscle definition, overdevelopment of muscles and difficulty of releasing grip.
20896	Infants with congenital nephrotic syndrome have unusual swelling of the face. Periorbital edema is also quite common among neonatal patients.
20897	Symptoms of congenital rubella include developmental delays, learning disabilities, diabetes, growth retardation, glaucoma, bone marrow, spleen and liver problems, deafness, schizophrenia, eye defects, low birth weight, and malformations of the heart.
20898	Different indications of the disease show in newborns, older infant, and young child. Symptoms in newborn include irritability, nose has watery discharge, mouth/genitalia/anus rash, small blisters on soles and palms, thrive failure, failure of weight gain, saddle nose, and serious congenital pneumonia. Signs in young child and older infant include joint swelling, bone pain, saber shins, vision loss, abnormal teeth, vision loss, cornea clouding, and condylomata.
20899	The disease may damage the fetus' eyes, ears, skin, and nervous system. Symptoms include enlarge spleen and liver, anemia, jaundice, prematurity, skin rash, low birth weight, and eye damage due to retina inflammation.
20900	The condition usually develops gradually and is long-term; however, an affected individual may experience sudden start of symptoms, identified as acute heart failure. Heart disease may be 'asymptomatic' or can cause manifestations that range from mild to serious. Most common symptoms include shortness of breath, chest pain, fatigue, and even heart attack.
20901	Conjoined twins are classified by the way their bodies are joined. They may be thoracopagus twins who are joined at the chest; omphalopagus twins who are joined near the bellybutton; pygopagus twins who are joined at the base of the spine; ischiopagus twins who are joined at the pelvis; craniopagus twins who are joined at the head; craniopagus twins who share the same skull; parapagus twins who are joined extensively at their sides. Although most conjoined twins have separate arms and legs, some share them as well.
20902	The following symptoms manifest with the disease: redness in the eye's inner eyelid or white of eye; more quantity of tears; itchy eyes; blurred vision; burning eyes; increased light sensitivity; thick, yellowish discharge crusting over one's eyelashes, particularly after sleep; and other eye discharge.
20903	High blood pressure or hypertension is often the major, and most often the single sign of the condition. Other symptoms include headache, high blood pressure, fatigue, muscle weakness, numbness, fatigue, and intermittent paralysis.
20904	An individual is probably constipated if he/she pass hard stool less than three times within a week, always have to strain during bowel movement, experiences abdominal bloating and discomfort.
20905	Constipation is a symptom of another rectal problem, hemorrhoids. Children who constipate suffer stiff bowel movement and release hard, stone-like stools. Painful defecation also occurs.
20906	The common symptoms include delayed dental growth in children, short stature, delayed onset of puberty and sexual development.
20907	When the skin is exposed to an offending substance, it may react resulting in a red rash or bumps, mild or severe itching, or dry, red patches. Severe cases may result in blisters and draining fluid from the exposed skin. The skin rash usually appears in the exposed area.
20908	While one may not instantly detect the condition of contact lens solution toxicity, there may be some clear indications that may help detect the said condition. Symptoms of contact lens solution toxicity include redness of the eyes, itching, tearing, pain, and discharge from the eyes, blurred vision and inability to wear contact lenses.
20910	The symptoms usually affect one's sensory or motor skills, such as one's ability to swallow, walk, hear, and see. The condition also imitates a medical or nervous system disorder. Symptoms include numbness; balance loss; leg or arm paralysis; inability to swallow, speak, and feel pain; deafness or hearing impairment; hallucinations; convulsions; vomiting; trembling; diarrhea; and urination inability.
20911	Symptoms and signs experience depends on the severity and type of thalassemia. Indications of Cooley's anemia include weakness, fatigue, slow growth, breath shortness, jaundice, dark urine, face abnormalities, and protruding abdomen.
20912	Infants that are affected may be prematurely born, but seem well at birth and grow normally for six to eight weeks. After which, symptoms start to manifest in the form of seizures, failure to thrive, floppy tone of muscle, bony deformities, twisted hair or pili torti, hypothermia, hypotonia, and extremely damaged intellectual development.
20913	Symptoms may depend on the severity and type of Coproporhyria. Indications of the disease will include serious abdominal pain, vomiting, constipation, seizures, disorientation, hallucinations, confusion, red urine, paranoia, hypertension, muscle pain, numbness, tingling, paralysis or weakness, and pain in legs, back, or arms. When the disease is cutaneous, symptoms will include skin swelling, itching, blisters, red urine, and painful redness of the skin.
20914	The disease is characterized by ankle or feet swelling, chest discomfort, breath shortness, exercise intolerance, and signs of an underlying disorder, such as coughing and sneezing.
20915	For people who have sustained an eye injury, a corneal abrasion is very likely. Symptoms include feeling there is a foreign object in the eye, tearing of the eye, distorted or blurred vision, eye pain especially when exposed to lights, and spasms that causes the person to squint.
20916	Symptoms of the condition vary on type and severity. However, there are three common indications for all types of corneal dystrophy: eye pain, visual impairment, and periodic eye pain.
20917	Symptoms of recurrent corneal erosion include the frequent attacks of acute ocular pain, sensitivity to bright lights and the sensation of having a foreign body in the eye. The pain is usually experienced during sleep when the patient is unconsciously rubbing the eyes or when waking up.
20918	Among the most common symptoms of cornea foreign body include the scratchy feeling, burning sensation and sharp pain. It can also include redness of the eye, excessive tearing, sensitivity to light, difficulty of opening the eyes blurred vision and even possible loss of vision.
20919	Symptom severity is variable; these include head abnormalities, hand malformations, facial abnormalities, and delayed physical growth prior to birth and after birth. Less common manifestations of the disease include eye problems, seizures, and skeletal abnormalities. Affected children have often been seen to feature bushy eyebrows, long eyelashes, and synophyrs. There is also an excessive body hair, as well as being shorter in stature than other immediate family members.
20920	Corns are usually regular in shape and often white, yellow or gray in color. The growths are often seen on the fifth or fourth toe, as these digits are the main points of pressure in the feet.
20921	Symptoms may not show when blood flow is restricted. However, as fatty deposits continue to accumulate in the coronary arteries, a person may experience chest pain, which may be triggered by physical and emotional stress; shortness of breath caused by the heart's inability to pump enough blood; or heart attack, which results from a complete blockage. A heart attack sometimes occurs with no apparent signs or symptoms.
20922	Initially, the limited blood flow might not show any symptoms. However, as fatty deposits keep on accumulating in the coronary arteries, the following symptoms may occur: chest pain, breath shortness, and heart attack.
20923	The symptoms of the disorder vary greatly from person to person. However, there are some common symptoms in affected individuals including hypotonia or low tone of the muscle, vision impairments, reduced motor coordination, swallowing and chewing difficulties, early language and speech delays, low discernment of pain, social difficulties, and motor milestones delays like walking and sitting.
20924	Cortical dysplasia causes patients to suffer from epilepsy or seizures and brain retardation. Focal cortical dysplasia is recognized as the most common cause of intractable seizures among children.
20925	There are three key symptoms observed among CBD patients, namely, alien hand syndrome (the inability to recognize one's hand as part of his body and lack of hand movement control), apaxia (inability to move body purposely) and trouble with spatial orientation showing through the difficulty in using utensils or dressing, and acalculia (difficulty in carrying mathematical calculations such as addition and subtraction). There are also Parkinson's disease-like symptoms associated with CBD including poor coordination, akinesia (absence of movements), rigidity, impaired balance, and dysphagia (difficulty in swallowing). Another sign of the disease is speech problem.
20926	Infants suffering from Costello syndrome are usually big at birth, but because they find it difficult to feed, they grow slower than normal babies. Children and adults are prone to develop pallilomas near the nose, anus, or mouth.
20927	Patients with costochondritis suffer from pain and tenderness in the affected areas. The intensity of pain ranges from sharp to less severe dull ones. One may also experience pain when taking deep breaths and coughing, and difficulty in breathing.
20928	Affected individuals feel a sharp or sometimes dull and gnawing pain and tenderness in their costosternal joints. Pain associated with the condition is usually on the left side of the breastbone. Symptoms of the condition may also include pain when taking deep breaths or when coughing, and difficulty in breathing.
20929	Affected individuals feel a sharp or sometimes dull and gnawing pain and tenderness in their costosternal joints. Pain associated with the condition is usually on the left side of the breastbone. Symptoms of the condition may also include pain when taking deep breaths or when coughing, and difficulty in breathing.
20930	There are no specified symptoms yet for cot death.
20931	Patients with Cote Adampoulos Pantelakis have deformities in the shoulder, elbow, wrist, hand, hip, knee and foot. It may also lead to Complications such as scoliosis, lung hypoplasia leading to respiratory problems, growth retardation, midfacial hemangioma, facial and jaw deformities, respiratory problems, and abdominal hernias.
20932	The condition is most prominent during the end of the first trimester of the wife's pregnancy and during the last remaining days before the child is born characterized by the following symptoms: food cravings, weight gain, nausea and vomiting, stomach cramps, abdominal discomforts, disturbed sleeping patterns, loss of appetite, itchy skin, headache, toothache, and other pain conditions common during pregnancy.
20933	Aside from growth of hamartomas, individuals afflicted with this disease have larger head. They may also be sick with Lhermitte-Duclos disease, a benign brain tumore, and mental retardation.
20934	Pustular lesions are localized, affecting only the parts of the body which came into direct contact with the animals. Red blisters are also a sign that a person is sick with cowpox.
20936	Affected individuals frequently have headaches, pain in the jaw, and blurred or double vision. If the condition is severe, it could lead to blindness or stroke. Although the symptoms of the condition vary, most affected individuals feel aches in the muscle with fever and fatigue as well as headache.
20937	CDD patients appear to have abnormal rib structure, broad nose, coarse face, dense/thickened skull, depressed nasal bridge, enlarged diaphysis, and enlarged jaw. The small cranial foramina induces seizures, mental retardation and paralysis.
20938	The highly pronounced symptoms of craniofacial dysostosisa, normally within the areas on the face, are results of the many mutations in the maturing embryo. Most common manifestations of the disorder include the following: low-set ears known as "branchial arch syndromes", malformations in the ear canal that results to loss of hearing, and in extremely severe cases, the occurence of Meniere's disease.
20940	Craniostenosis typically takes place alone. However, there are certain cases wherein it comes with certain other syndromes and their respective symptoms. Some of these are Crouzon Syndrome characterized by bulging, wide-set eyes and flat face; Apert Syndrome characterized by a flat midface and fused toes or fingers; Jackson-Weiss Syndrome characterized by flat midface and enlarged, bent toes; Pfeiffer Syndrome characterized by broad and short thumbs, or big and webbed fingers or toes.
20941	This disorder alters the facial features of the affected childing, causing them to have wide-set bulging eyes, beaked nose, flat face, facial asymmetry, drooping eyelids, and low frontal hairline. Craniosynostosis may likewise result to mental retardation and developmental delays.
20942	The name of this disease is the acronym for its symptoms and signs: Calcinosi - calcium deposits build up under your skin, on the elbows, knees and fingers, legs and spine. This may cause infection Raynaud's phenomenon - this is the first sign that an individual has this disease. This is characterized by numbness, pain, and color changes in your fingers. Esphageal dysfunction - esophagus may not perform well causing difficulty in swallowing, as well as other complications Sclerodactyly - skin thickening Telangiectasia - dilated blood vessels on the skin's surface are observed on the face, hands, lips, and lining of intestinal tract
20943	Cretinism may stunt growth, delay bone maturity and puberty. Ovulation in these cases is impeded and infertility is quite typical. Neurological impairment are usually mild, along with the display of reduced coordination and muscle, it can be so severe that the person suffer the difficulty to stand or walk. Cognitive impairment can also range from mild to extremely severe resulting forthe person to be nonverban and may be largely dependent on others to provide basic care.
20944	CJD first affects the mental capacity of patients, causing behavioral changes, memory loss, among other cognitive problems. Physical problems will likewise surface impairing speech, balance and coordination, and movements.
20945	Infants with Cri du chat suffer from behavioral and physiological problems, including problems with swallowing, poor growth, less than the average weight, delays in the development of motor and speech abilities, tantrums, hyperactivity, unusual facial features, and aggression. These signs are observed among children and adolescents: mental retardation, deep-set eyes, scoliosis, facial features coarsening and severe malocclusion.
20946	The condition has no apparent symptoms.
20947	The high levels of blood and skin biliburin levels causes CNS patients to have persistent orange or yellow skin. The whites of the eyes also appear yellow. Dangerous complications such as brain damage may also arise when the condition is left untreated.
20948	Fever Jaundice Headache Sore throat Muscle aches Sore eyes Rash on the eyes color red Nosebleeds Gums are bleeding Nausea Appetite loss Pain in the abdomen Diarrhea Pain in the chest Dizziness
20949	Most people with Crohn's disease can go on for years without getting diagnosed because of the vague symptoms and due to the depth of tissue involvement. It is therefore important to be look out for signs such as abdominal pain, which is cramp-like, and accompanied by diarrhea. Other indications of the disease include vomiting, nausea, itchiness or pain around the anus, which may be a sing of inflammation, fistulization or abscess around the area.
20950	Many patients suffering from Cronkhite-Canada will experience changes in skin pigmentation, diarrhea, alopecia, hair and nail loss and profound malnutrition. The disease progresses over time, with the nutritional symptoms eventually leading to situations such as edema and alarming loss of weight.
20951	At the onset, children afflicted with Croup could experience cold-like symptoms, such as clogged or runny nose. They might also have fever. The hoarse, "barking" sound the children make while coughing is caused by the worsening inflammation of the upper airway. In severe cases, children will have difficulty breathing and because of lack of oxygen, the sides of their mouth will be pale and bluish.
20952	Because of their pronounced features, infants afflicted with Crouzon syndrome are diagnosed with the disease early. The manifestations of the disorder include short and wide head, bulging eyes, beak-like nose, concave-shaped face, and hypertelorism (distance between eyes is bigger than normal. Patients may also encounter problems with their nose, teeth, sinuses, and palate.
20953	Crouzonodermoskeletal syndrome shares some symptoms with the disorder called Crouzon syndrome. Individuals afflicted with both diseases will have upper jaws that are underdeveloped, misshapen head and face, a beaked nose, eye sockets that are shallow, and bulging and wide-set eyes. They also tend to have normal intelligence.
20954	The effects of Crow-Fukase syndrome is far-reaching, with symptoms divided into major and minor criteria. Major signs are polyneuropathy and monoclonal plasmaproliferative disorder. Minor symptoms are sclerotic bone lesions, endocrinopathy, Castleman disease, edema, skin changes, and orgamegaly. Patients will also suffer from pulmonary hypertension, fever, diarrhea, low vitamin B12, weight loss, among other symptoms.
20955	Patients will experience different symptoms depending on the organs affected by cryoglobulinemia. These are some of the signs: fatigue, joint pain, skin death, Raynaud's phenomenon, muscle pain, skin ulceration, enlarged liver and spleen, and purpura.
20956	AIDS patients afflicted with Cryptococcal meningitis may not manifest symptoms. Non-AIDS patients however will experience headaches, cloudy vision, behavioral changes such as depression and confusion. Cryptococcosis affecting the lungs manifest itself with pulmonary lesions, cough as well as unspecified respiratory symptoms.
20957	The testicle has not completely descended into the scrotum, which may still be inside the abdominal cavity or partway down the inguinal canal or may have never formed.
20958	The remarkable symptom of cryptosporidiosis is the episodes of watery diarrhea lasting up to two weeks; usually 1-2 weeks after cryptosporidium infection. Dehydration, malnutrition, and weight loss are evident due to frequent bouts of watery diarrhea. Stomach pain, fever, nausea, vomiting and malaise are also symptoms that may appear after the infection.
20959	The infected person suffers from watery diarrhea lasting up to two weeks. Other symptoms may include dehydration, malnutrition, weight loss, stomach cramps or pain, fever, nausea, malaise, or vomiting. However, people with healthy immune systems do not manifest any symptoms.
20960	Among the symptoms of the disorder are pain, muscle weakness in the affected area, and stiffness.
20961	Symptoms include intestinal obstruction, intestinal constipation, recurrent meningitis, anorectal stenosis, atresia and ectopia along with progressive neurological manifestations. Prescaral cysts, tetranoma, lipoma and meningocele are also observed.
20962	Symptoms of Cushing's Syndrome include raid weight gain, obesity, sweating, thinning of the skin, proximal muscle weakness as well as hirsutism. Other signs include fat pads that grow along the patient's collar bones as well as in the nape. High cortisol level would also result to reduced libido and impotence.
20963	Symptoms would usually start as a tiny, red and extremely itchy papule or bump that grows at the site of the infection. Within the span of two days, this bump would develop into a somewhat blister filled with fluid that would eventually rupture. The infected lesion will eventually dry up into a black scab that covers the area of the dead skin.
20964	A cutaneous horn is most likely to occur on areas of the skin that are regularly exposed to the sun. The growth takes a cone-shaped protuberance that may take a red or pink bump or lesion.
20965	The parasites that cause Cutaneous larva migrans or CLM can be found in the feces of cats and dogs. Animals are infected right down to their deep tissues while humans are only affected on their skin's outer layer.
20966	Symptoms include lesions that can usually be aggravated with sun exposure.
20968	Primary symptoms include abnormally loss skin that hangs in fold and inelastic, skin fragility, prone to bruises, large bowels due to the its effect on the gastrointestinal tract along with emphysema, congestive heart failure, cardiomegaly, and even osteoporosis.
20969	Cutis marmorata telangiectatica congenital primarily affects the patient's skin that would usually occur on the lower extremities as well as the face and trunk. Lesions appear pink with tinge of blue coupled with patches and reticular changes. Other signs include capillary malformations and glaucoma.
20970	Cutis rhomboidalis nuchae are more likely to appear on the back of the neck thata re characterized by the deep wrinkling and furrowing of the skin which can be associated to a leathery texture. The furrows usually take geometric configurations.
20971	The scalp is the primary affected area of cutis verticis gyrate that is known to affect the occipital and vertex region. In some cases, it affects the entire scalp of the patient. The skin color will still remain unchanged but hair growth over the scalp folds may be sparse. air over the folds may be sparse but normal in the furrows.
20972	Cyclic neutropenia typically go undetected, and only be detected when the patient develops some severe form of infections or sepsis. Among the common symptoms of neutropenia include fever, diarrhea, mouth ulcers, sore throat, shortness of breath, shaking chills, and burning sensation w hen urinating.
20973	Severe vomiting, gagging and nausea that sometimes happen as frequent as 12 times in every hour for a day or two are among the symptoms of cyclic vomiting syndrome in children. In adults, they have the same symptoms but the episodes tend to last more than two days. Other symptoms are headache, diarrhea, abdominal pain, fever and dizziness.
20974	Infected persons may experience diarrhea that may stop in a few days for healthy immune system, or may be chronic if the immune system is weak. Symptoms may not show in other patients. Other indications of the infection include frequent and sometimes explosive bowel movements, loss of appetite, weight loss, bloating, flatulence, burping, stomach cramps, nausea, vomiting, muscle aches, low-grade fever, fatigue, and malaise.
20975	Cyclothymia symptoms are often characterized by the sporadic patterns of emotional swings. The highs of cyclothymia are known as hypomania, which is a milder form of mania. On the other hand, the lows consist of mild to moderate forms of depression. However, the main difference between cyclothymia and bipolar is the fact that with this condition, the patient does not lose touch of reality. Symptoms include extreme optimism, inflated self-esteem, unusual cheerfulness, rapid speech, racing thoughts, agitation, inconsiderate to others, spending sprees, increased sexual drive, and poor judgment. On emotional lows, patients experience extreme sadness, fatigue, Suicidal behavior and thoughts, anxiety, guilt and the general feeling of hopelessness.
20976	Sporadic patterns of emotional highs and lows are the most prominent symptom of cyclothymic disorder. Highs of cyclothymic disorder are manifested by symptoms including remarkable cheerful mood, very high self-esteem, extreme hopefulness, aggressive and risky behavior, increased drive to perform activities and achieve goals, and inability to sleep and concentrate. Lows of cyclothymic disorder is marked by remarkable depression represented by symptoms including suicidal thoughts, anxiety, sadness, extremely low self-confidence, loss of interest in performing activities, irritability, loss of appetite, and chronic pain with no known cause.
20977	The common symptoms of the genetic defect include delayed development, failure to thrive, nearsightedness, frequent blood clots, spidery fingers, scoliosis, knock-knees, and eventual mental retardation. These symptoms are usually not detected until they have progressed to advanced stages.
20978	The symptoms of CF may differ with age. For newborns, the mucus becomes thick making it impossible to pass through the intestines. In children and young adults, the symptoms include, bowel obstruction, greasy stools, growth delay, unusually thick sputum, wheezing, chest infections with chronic bronchitis and rectal prolapse.
20979	The most well known symptom is a mass found on the neck.
20980	Symptoms for Cystinosis would normally depend on the severity of the disease that would typically include photophobia, loss of appetite, changes in the retina, short stature, as well as impaired kidneys.
20981	Generally, the sole symptom of cystinuria is the formation of cystine kidney stones than would often recur all throughout a person's lifetime. This condition may also be associated with urinary tract infections, high blood pressure, kidney insufficiency or damage.
20982	Cystitis symptoms would often include strong urge to always urinate, passing small amounts of urine, strong-smelling urine, pressure in the lower abdomen, low-grade fever, discomfort in the pelvic area, and blood in the urine.
20983	Chronic pelvic pain, pain in your pelvis (suprapubic) or between the vagina and anus in women or the scrotum and anus in men (perineal), frequent urination occurring both during the day and during the night with small volumes of urine each time and pelvic pain during sexual intercourse are among the signs and symptoms of interstitial cystitis which could vary from different individuals.
20984	Cystocele symptoms may include recurrent bladder infections, loss of urinary control with coughing, laughing or sneezing (stress incontinence), pain or urinary leakage during sexual intercourse, increased discomfort when you strain, cough, bear down or lift; a feeling of fullness or pressure in your pelvis and vagina especially when standing for long periods of time; a feeling that you haven't completely emptied your bladder after urinating and a bulge tissue that protrudes through the vaginal opening in severe cases.
20985	If the infection happens in healthy individuals after birth, warning signs may be minimal or may even be nonexistent. A number of people undergo mild symptoms, such s fatigue, prolonged fever, tender lymph nodes, and mild hepatitis. People with compromised immune system, newborn, or fetus, may have more severe symptoms.
20986	Generally, this disease may not show symptoms, or if any, only mild ones. Some people may have symptoms alike to mononucleosis, such as headache, fever, tiredness, and sore throat. Individuals with a weak immune system, like those with HIV, may suffer severe symptoms.
20988	Having an itchy, scaling scalp where white, oily flakes of dead skin that dot ones hair and shoulders comprises the signs and symptoms of dandruff for most people.
20989	The symptoms for dandy fever include high fever, blood clots, flu-like symptoms and weakness. This condition, when not treated, can be fatal.
20990	The syndrome may develop unnoticed or appear dramatically. Symptoms that occur during early infancy include progressive skull enlargement and sluggish motor development. Older children may manifest raised intracranial pressure, for instance vomiting, irritability, convulsions, and symptoms of cerebellar dysfunction. Other symptoms include bigger head circumference, back of skull bulging, troubles with nerves responsible for eye, neck, and face control, and abnormal patterns of breathing.
20991	The most common symptoms include hyperkeratotic samples in the seborrheic regions, changes in mucous membrane, and nail abnormalities. Other symptoms include foul odor, pruritus, , keratotic rash, and hyperkeratotic lesions.
20992	Excessive daytime sleepiness which is characterized by overwhelming drowsiness, falling asleep without warning at any time and anywhere or having an uncontrollable need to sleep during the day are among the symptoms of Hypersomnia. Other symptoms of daytime sleepiness include sleep paralysis, where a person experiences having a temporary inability to move or speak while falling asleep or upon waking and sudden loss of muscle tone.
20993	Patients with CdLS are born small and remain small as they age. They grow to be very slow learners, with limb deformities such as small or even missing arms. Hairiness is common, as well as low set ears and widely spaced teeth.
20994	The primary signs and symptoms of De Quervain's tenosynovitis are the swelling of the pain at the base of the thumb. This pain may increase in intensity over time. If the condition goes without treatment, the pain may spread on the farther on the neighboring area of the hand. Symptoms include numbness, pain and swelling of the thumb, development of a fluid-filled cyst, and a squeaking sound when tendons try to move.
20995	Symptoms and signs vary from eye and skin symptoms, to severe developmental and neurological involvement. Some symptoms of the disorder include photosensitivity, intelligence, weakened or absent reflexes, small head, growth deficiency, progressive mental retardation, xeroderma pigmentosa, and other neurological symptoms.
20997	The signs of decubitus ulcers are lesions on the back. This is common among patients who have been bedridden for a long period of time.
20998	The symptoms of the inflammation are headache, fever, nausea, as well as swelling and tenderness of the affected area.
20999	Presence of deep vein thrombosis is often manifested by swelling in the ankles and feet of the affected legs causing cramping pain in the leg originating from the calf. Redness and warmth is remarkable on the affected leg. If it affects other parts of the body an obvious swelling will be observed on the affected portion. If the blood clot had reached the lung (pulmonary embolism); chest pain, feeling lightheaded and fainting, coughing up blood, and sudden onset of shortness of breath which is unexplainable are considered as warning signs for emergency.
21000	Most individuals who are afflicted with deerfly fever often become sick after ten days of incubation period. Symptoms include fever, chills, skin ulcer formation at the site of the infection, headache, exhaustion and chills.
21001	Among the symptoms of osteoarthritis are swelling joints, loss of joint flexibility and extreme joint discomfort.
21002	ALS occurs in persons above the age of 40, although the disease may begin at the age of 20. The most common symptoms of the disease are muscle stiffness, cramps, twitching and loss of balance. Soon the patient suffers from slurred speech, drooling and breathing difficulties.
21003	Some of the major symptoms of Degos disease may include diarrhea, abdominal pain, weight, loss, and skin lesions. Some intestinal lesions can break through the bowel's walls called perforation, and is potentially critical complication.
21004	The disease is generally characterized by the infantile start of moderate to serious upper and lower extremity weakness, as well as sensation loss. Symptoms are typically more rapidly progressive and severe compared to other common subtype Charcot-Marie-Tooth disorders. Some affected individuals may never be able to walk again, and be bound to the wheelchair by end of its first ten years; others might require only a walking stick or a comparable support throughout life.
21005	Vomiting, a feeling of fullness after eating just a few bites (early satiety) and nausea are among the signs and symptoms of gastroparesis. Vomiting usually happens when you have already eaten and your stomach is still full of undigested food and normal stomach secretions after several hours. Acids and accumulated stomach enzymes sometimes can also cause vomiting when you don't eat.
21006	Signs and symptoms of delirium usually come and go all throughout the day, and often intensify over time. Symptoms include mental confusion, constant shifting of attention, and inability to name objects, incoherent speeches, and hallucinations. In some cases it also comes with emotional outbursts such as fear and anxiety. Some patients also display disruptive vocalization and significant decrease in activity.
21007	The symptoms of senile dementia are memory loss, degenerative attention span, irritability, and poor orientation of space and time. Patients with the illness often reminisce of their youthful days and ask about their peers whom they shared fun memories with.
21008	Symptoms of the disease may include itchiness, skin nodules, skin bumps, and persistent eruption of the skin follicle.
21009	Symptoms vary depending on the type of demyelinating disease. Multiple sclerosis symptoms include sensation changes, muscle weakness, moving difficulty, abnormal spasms of the muscles, fatigue, bowel and bladder difficulties, emotional symptomatology, and cognitive impairment. Other symptoms for the other types, may include sensory loss, paralysis, vision loss, and reduced spinal cord function.
21010	Symptoms typically start after four to seven days from the bite of a mosquito carrying the dengue virus. Symptoms may differ, depending on type of disease. The more severe signs usually start in the same manner as mild dengue type, and then worsen after a few days. Symptoms include up to 105 F high-fever, severe backache, severe, headaches, rash on almost all parts of the body, pain at the back of the eyes, severe muscle and joint pain, vomiting, and nausea.
21011	Early symptoms of dengue hemorrhagic fever include high fever, irritability, sweaty and restlessness. In advanced conditions, patients seem to enter the shock0like state, which is soon followed by bleeding evidenced by the pinpoints of blood under the skin and usually occur after minor injuries. This condition can soon lead to death if left untreated. Other symptoms include muscle aches, headaches, joint aches, malaise, decrease in appetite and vomiting.
21012	Patients with Dent Disease often manifest symptoms such as frequent urination caused by dehydration and extreme thirst, presence of kidney stones and high amount of urine calcium.
21013	Patients with mild cases of Dental Fluorosis have faint white spots in the teeth. In severe cases, mottling and pitting occurs causing deformed teeth with brown stains.
21015	Patients who suffer this disease often have strong teeth discolorations, blue-gray or yellow-brown. Tooth decay can also be a symptom of having such disease. Teetch will have irregular dentital tubules with bigger diameter, Visible areasof uncalcified matrix and sometimes odontoblasts in dentin are visible.
21016	The core symptom of depersonalization disorder primarily includes the rather subjective experience of unreality. Reported cases claim that patients seem to watch themselves at a distance as well as undergoing out of body experiences.
21017	Children who happen to be depressed show signs of restlessness, irritability, poor social interaction and express the need to be wanted or focused on. They do not initiate friendships and are timid and want to be left alone.
21018	The main symptoms of depression are self-exile in the house, loss of cheerfulness and social interaction, tantrums and resort to vices.
21019	Patients with Dercum's disease complain of painful swellings of fatty tumor tissues or lipomas which last for three months at the least. Other parts of the body swells for no reason and sometimes leaves the fingers numb. Bones on the wrist, hips, elbow, legs, arms, and the tailbone becomes painful. Skin becomes tender and more prone to allergies and patients find it difficult to wear tight clothing or taking a bath. General fatigue, difficulties in sleeping, patients feel very hot and have the tendency to turn black or blue. Some will have poor memory and experience combined tension headaches and classic migraine.
21020	Vesicles and papules that appear usually in the pressure points such as elbow, knees, buttocks, and the back part which are extremely itchy.
21021	When a person's skin may turn brown is color is a guide to whether he or she is suffering from statis dermatitis. An additional to the symptom is where the affected area of the skin will generally weaken and become affected by ulcers. The skin is in a very poor condition if it is indicated that if it is severe, cracking will become evident and continuation of the problem may result in bacterial infections and could possibly result in cellulites infections spreading throughout the leg.
21022	Nipple dermatitis makes the nipple take a darker color as well as the surrounding area. Nipples may also appear crusted, oozing, scaling and painful.
21023	Nummular dermatitis has been found be quite common growth on the extremities and on the body's trunk. The bumps are slightly raised from the surface of the skin, often coin-shaped and are pink or red in color. The bumps often have small cracks or fissures on the skin.
21024	The primary symptoms of this skin condition are the growth of small red or oink bumps as well as very tiny lesions that are filled with pus around the mouth area. The bumps may also grow around the eyes as well as the nose, and appear to be overly dry and flaky skin.
21025	Symptom include lesions in the skin which are brown in color to tan. It can be itchy and tender in some cases.
21026	The signs and symptoms that trigger dermatographia may be from sunlight, cold, heat, emotion and pressure. It may also be triggered like rubbing your bed sheets or clothes on your skin. Within a few minutes, you may notice the symptoms from your skin that's being scratched or rubbed.
21027	Symptoms include swelling of the skin which can be mistaken as an allergic reaction to the object being rubbed againts the skin causing scratches. It is often accompanied with a sensation of itchiness or burning.
21028	Patients suffering from this disease often manifest symptoms such as rashes on different parts of the body and muscular pains. Patients also manifest the Shawl sign that is a lesion over the chest towards the shoulders, Erythroderma which is like the shawl sign bu occurs in other parts of the body like the forehead. Some also shows signs of rough hands otherwise known as the mechanics hands with cracked skin at the tip of the fingers and its lateral parts that forms dirty lines.
21029	Patients with this disease manifest symptom s like lack or absence of dermatoglyphics, heat intolerance, hypohidrosis, nail dystrophy, diffuse alopecia, and enamel defects.
21030	Symptoms include lessions in the hands and feet that usually appear in small water-filled rashes.
21031	Presence of such disease manifests skin lesions or rashes depending on what species of fungi are involved.
21031	Among the symptoms of athletes foot are excessive dryness of the skin on the bottoms or sides of the feet, itchy blisters, itching, stinging and burning between your toes, especially the last two toes; cracking and peeling skin, especially between your toes and on the soles of your feet; itching, stinging and burning on the soles of your feet and nils that are thick, crumbly, ragged, discolored or pulling away from the nail bed.
21032	Females affected by the DES syndrome may encounter certain abnormalities in the vagina, uterus and cervix; males meanwhile have penile dysfunctions.
21033	Often times, Desmoid tumors grow in areas where there are tissues that form the tendons and ligaments like in the arms, abdomen, and legs and in the chest in some cases. It is usually soft sarcoma and does not spread to other parts of the body.
21034	Symptoms vary depending on the location of the tumor and extent. Patient with tumors at the abdomen often have enlarged abdomen associated with pain, vomiting and lost of weight due to lack of appetite, abdominal mass, obstruction in the gastrointestinal area, and patients may become anemic.
21035	Children with cerebral palsy have slower pacing in learning how to use their physical abilities, and milestone stages such as standing, sitting and walking take a long process. So goes with their ability to communicate verbally.
21036	Symptoms include pain in the eyes, and certain degrees of weakness and paralysis. Patients will also loose sensations and will have bowel and/or bladder dysfunction. Color blindness can also be associated with this disease. Other symptoms are optic neuritis and weakening of the legs which may also include the arms.
21037	Although people in this condition don't have any medical problems, some still suffer a number of bowel problems, cardiac, oesophagus and bronchial problems. In some but very rare cases, cilia or the minute hair-like structures in the lungs and nose moves in the opposite direction causing the person to be susceptible to colds.
21038	Characteristics or symptoms of this disease include reversed heart chambers and abdominal organs like the spleen and liver. The primitive heart tube folds to the left. Some patients may encounter bowel problems, colds or bronchial problems due to the movement of the minute hair-like structures in the lungs and nose in the opposite direction thus causing illness.
21039	Frequent urination with very large volume of urine consist of almost water is the primary symptom to watch for. Children with this disease is likely to be irritable and may develop fever due to severe dehydration. Vomitting or diarrhea also are symptoms of this disease.
21040	The symptoms of type 1 and type 2 diabetes include increase in volume of urine output which are usually sweet and less appetite accompanied with fatigue and stress.
21041	Generally, the symptoms for any form of diabetes is frequent release of large amounts of sweet urine, polydipsia or the urge to drink a lot of liquids or being too thirsty at most times, and polyphagia or increased appetite. Type 1 diabetes may also cause a rather significant loss of weight over just a short period of time even if the patient eats normally or more. Patients also experience irreducible stress or fatigue.
21042	There is no concrete symptoms of this disease. Although, being a complication of diabetes, it follows the same pattern of symptoms as that of diabetes mellitus. Frequent urination or large amount of liquids, being always thirsty, stress and fatigue and other symptoms like pain in the head, eyes or other parts of the body.
21043	Low blood sugar and high blood sugar are the determining signs and symptoms for diabetic coma to strike out. If you have a very high blood sugar level, you may experience nausea, shortness of breath, dry mouth, increased thirst, vomiting and frequent urination; and if you have a very low blood sugar level, you may feel hungry, tired, shaky or nervous, confused, irritable and sweaty.
21044	Diabetic dermopathy often appears as pink or tan patches, and are known to be most frequently to grow on the lower legs. The patches are often slightly scaly in texture and are usually round or oval in shape. Unlike other skin conditions, diabetic dermopathy is not itchy or cause any discomfort.
21045	Diabetic hyperosmolar syndrome usually takes several days to weeks to develop. Symptoms include excessive thirst, high blood sugar level, vision loss, increase urination, parched mouth, and weakness on one side of the body.
21046	Symptoms of diabetic ketoacidosis may sometimes develop quickly within 24 hours. One may experience nausea and vomiting, confusion, excessive thirst, weakness or fatigue, frequent urination, shortness of breath, fruity-scented health, abdominal pain and loss of appetite.
21047	Symptoms of this disease includes kidney failures which is provoked by glomerulosclerosis. Patients will have an increase in blood pressure and increase in the retention of fluid retention in the body . Symptoms often develop in late stages of the disease. Other symptoms arise such as oedema, swelling around the eyes in the mornings. Later, patients will experience general body swelling may result in the legs, foamy appearance of the urine, weight gain usually from fluid accumulation, poor appetite. Nausea and vomiting may also arise accompanied with a feeling of being generally ill feeling,fatigue, frequent headache and hiccups, and itching all over the body.
21048	The clinical manifestation of Diabetic Neuropathy is depend on the affected nerve(s). Common symptoms are numbness of extremities, decrease or loss of sensation, dirrhea, erectile dysfunction, urinary incontenince, impotence, vision changes, dizziness, muscle weakness, dysphagia, fasciculation, and electric stabbing pain or numbness in the extremities.
21049	In the early stages of diabetic retinopathy, symptoms may be unusual, and as the condition progresses, one may experience poor night vision, vision loss, spots floating in your vision, dark streaks or a red film that blocks your vision or having a blurred vision. Furthermore, it usually affects both eyes.
21050	It is characterized by anemia associated with declined erythroid progenitors. Some of the characteristics are craniofacial malformations, thumb or upper limb abnormalities, cardiac defect, urogenital malformation and cleft palate.
21051	The symptoms characterizing diaper rash are skin symptoms, which is marked by red, puffy and tender skin in the diaper region, usually in the buttocks, genitals or thighs; and changes in your baby's disposition, where you may notice that your baby is more uncomfortable than usual especially during diaper changes, letting him or her cry or fuss when the diaper area is touched or washed.
21052	The symptoms of diaphragmatic hernia oftentimes are observed soon after birth. The most common symptoms include difficulty in breathing, fast breathing, very fast pumping of the heart, cyanosis or blueish skin color, chest development is abnormal, abdomen appears concave. Although some babies born with this condition may or may not manifest any symptoms or the symptoms manifested may resemble other conditions.
21053	Among the symptoms of diarrhea in children are loose, watery stools, frequent, uncontrollable stool excretion, and abdominal spasms.
21054	Symptoms of diastrophic dysplasia includes the follwing: cleft palate, short limbs, severe clubfoot, progressive deformities of the joints, deformities of the ear, gradual spinal curvature, hand deformities,and degenerative changes in the joints.
21055	During infant, it is usually symptoms free when the patient is breastfed because human milk have low protein content but later the infant may vomit. The patient will also manifest failure to thrive, loss of appetite, enlargement of liver and spleen, growth retardation, degeneration of the bone may develop, delayed bone age and protein aversion. Convulsion and coma may happen if protein intake is continued.
21057	People with dish often experience stiffness of the back, and neck. Swelling can also be found in the joints not located near the spine, including the heels, knees, ankles, elbows, shoulders, hands and hips.
21058	It is characterized by scarring and inflammation of the deep lung tissues that leads to shortness of breathing and difficulty of breath.
21059	DGS features certain defects such as hypo and aplasia conditions of the thymus and parathyroid glands. Congenital heart problems are also found, as well as facial dysmorphism.
21060	Visible indications of this disorder is commonly seen during or shortly after Birth. It includes congenital heart defect, cleft palate, autism, abnormal immune response,learning difficulties, hearing loss, feeding problem may due to laryngotracheoesophageal anomalies, renal and skeletal abnormalities, hypoparathyroidism that leads to hypocalcemia and seizures (even if without hypocalcelmia).
21061	There are no direct symptoms associated with the disease although it impedes proper metabolic process of the body.
21062	Some patients with DCM are asymptomatic and other patient show manifestation at later stage. Patient are risk of sudden death. The obvious signs are chest pain, loss of consciousness related to lack of blood supply in the brain. The following symtoms include narrowed pulse pressure, increase jugular venous pressure and presence of systolic murmur when auscultated.
21064	It is characterized with two or more penis, both are situated side by side and has equal size, urine passes through both penis, some patient in one penis only, other patient neither of the penis. Some patient is sterile or incapable to produce semen, but the penis will erect if stimulated.
21065	Initial symptoms include fatigue,mild to high fever,chills, nausea and vomiting, a mild sore thraot and difficulty in swallowing. When the infection progresses and the bacteria released more toxins the patient may manifest listlessness, pallor, tachychardia, low blood pressure. If not treated earlier it will complicate to cardiomyopathy and peripheral neuropathy. Secondary infection also develop called cutaneous diphtheria infection that is form of skin ulcers.
21067	Common initial manifestation are fever , body weakness, joint pain, muscle pain and fatigue. Some symptoms depends on affected organs, the patient shows rashes on the face or butterfly rash, discoid lupus, alopecia, mouth, nasal, skin and vaginal lesion, small joint pain such as fingers and wrist are affected. Anemia and iron deficiency, low platelet and white blood cell counts, thrombotic disorder may show in blood test. It also causes inflammation of the heart, lungs, pancreas and liver. Hematuria or proteinuria are presents due to renal impairement. Seizures and psychosis are the symptoms when it already affects the brain.
21068	The typical signs and symptoms of children with childhood disintegrative disorder include normal development for at least the first two years of life such as normal development of age-appropriate verbal and nonverbal communication, motor, play and self-care skills and social relationship. Another is the significant loss of previously acquired or learned skills which occurs before age 10 such as play skills, motor skills (ability to voluntarily move the body in a purposeful way), ability to say words or sentences (expressive language), bowel and bladder control, social skills and self-care skills (adaptive behavior) and ability to understand verbal and nonverbal communication (receptive language). Other symptoms include the lack of normal function or impairment such as on social interaction, repetitive and stereotyped patterns of behavior, interests and activities and communication.
21069	The signs and symptoms of a dislocated shoulder may include swelling or discoloration (bruising), a visibly deformed or out of place shoulder, inability to move the joint and intense pain. Often increasing the intensity of your pain are your muscles in your shoulder that may spasm from the disruption.
21070	The signs and symptoms of a dislocated joint may be immovable, visibly deformed or out of place, intensely painful and swollen or discolored. The numbness or tingling near the injury may also be experienced such as in your hand for a dislocated elbow or in your foot for a dislocated knee.
21071	Social withdrawal, anxiety and decline in daily functional abilities and as well as unusual behaviors are the early signs and symptoms of schizophrenia which may begin gradually. The signs and symptoms of disorganized schizophrenia include disorganized thinking, absent or inappropriate emotional expression and grossly disorganized behavior. Additional signs and symptoms include the inability to initiate plans, hearing voices or experiencing other sensory events that aren't real (hallucinations), holding untrue beliefs about reality (delusions) and little verbal communication with other people.
21072	Other heart problems such as a heart attack may be similar to the symptoms of aortic dissection. The usual signs and symptoms of aortic dissections include stroke, sudden severe chest or upper back pain, often described as a tearing, ripping or shearing sensation that radiates down the back; weakness, loss of consciousness (fainting) and shortness of breath.
21073	The predominant disturbance is the primary symptoms of Dissociative Amnesia, along with the inability to recall an important personal information but cannot be explained by ordinary forgetfulness. Such condition can cause significant distress as well as possible impairment of the person's social or occupational functions.
21074	Distal Myopathy causes progressive deterioration of muscle weakness, from distal legs to knees and intrinsic muscles of the hand, sensation is loss, speech defect, difficulty in swallowing, absent tendon reflex, deformity of the foot and sometimes tremors even at rest.
21075	Often times, patients with this disease manifest symptoms like abdominal pain which is most common. Patients may also feel tenderness in the abdomen, or around the lower left side. If infection occurs, the patient will likely experience vomiting, fever, chills, and constipation. Nausea and cramping may occur as well.
21075	The initial manifestations are the symptoms of diverticulosis. Commonly Diverticulosis is asymptomatic, but some patient experience mild cramps, feeling of fullness, and constipation. If not diagnose early it well develop to diverticulitis, the patient experience abdominal pain and tenderness in left lower quadrant of the abdomen. If the disease is cause by infection the patient may manifest hyperthermia, nausea and vomiting, chills, abdominal cramping and constipation.
21076	The signs and symptoms of dizziness include a loss of balance, blurred vision after quick head movements, a sense that you or your surroundings are spinning or moving (vertigo), wooziness, faintness, nausea, fatigue, lightheadedness, unsteadiness, weakness and difficulty concentrating.
21077	Children who experience dizziness usually feel a woozy. They also sometimes faint and suffer from headaches.
21078	Symptoms of inherited Ichthyosis vulgaris often manifest themselves when children reach four years of age. These symptoms improve as the child becomes older. These symptoms may grow even more severe during old age. The acquired Ichthyosis vulgaris condition, in the other hand, usually manifest during adulthood. Severe cases, which is very rare, also exist. These cases would entail skin scaling everywhere in the bdoy. Areas, however, that have greatest concentration of the sweat glands are not always affected whereas areas where the skin often rubs against other skin, such as the groins, arm pits. The "folded" areas of the knees area and elbow are also less affected. When the scales build up is really bad, the person suffering a very severe case would often suffer "prickly itch". At this rate, he or she really needs to sweat. This becomes difficult, however, because of the build up of scales.
21079	The most common symptoms of DORV defects are as follows but some or each child may manifest symptoms differently. It includes fatigue, blue skin color, child seems not interested to eat, very poor gain of weight, heart murmurs, congested or heavy breathing, cyanosis, sweating, short and rapid breathing.
21080	Even during pregnancy and childbirth, some women never realize that they have a double uterus where its symptoms include an abnormal bleeding during a period, such as blood flow despite the use of a tampon, a mass in the pelvis and unusual pain before or during a menstrual period.
21082	People suffering from Down syndrome may have some or even all of the physical characteristics described as follows: eye fissures are oblique with skin folds in the eye's inner corner, they have poor muscle tone, with flat nose bridge, single fold in the palms, tongue that protrudes beacause of small oral cavity and a relatively enlarged tongue espeically near the tonsils area, they have short neck, white spots present on the iris called Brushfield spots, they also have very lax joints which entails atlanto-axial instability, heart defects, very big space between the large toe and the second toe, one furrow (flexion of the fifth finger, with many ulnar loop dermatoglyphs.
21084	There is no direct symptom for this disease, it only appears when the rupture of skin or blisters occur where the female worms emerges, usually in the lower limbs.
21085	Dressler's syndrome results to a number of symptoms that usually manifest after a heart attack or surgery. This includes chest pains, fever, pain in the left shoulder as well as shortness of breath or even pain when breathing.",Medical experts believe that this medical condition is a reaction of the body's immune system after a heart injury
21086	Depending on where the edema is situated, patients with the condition suffer from recurring pain in the affected areas, migraine and swelling of the organ or tissue where the water accumulated. In some cases, the disease can be fatal.
21087	Drug eruptions are also known as drug rashes. This condition has a variety of skin rashes, ranging from hives, red patches, pustules or blisters. This may involve the whole skin of the body or can also be limited to certain areas, depending on the severity of the reaction.
21088	Drug-induced liver disease shows minimal or almost no signs. The symptoms arise with the development of other diseases that affect the liver, and only then would the patient suffer from fatigue, abdominal pain, jaundice and loss of appetite.
21089	Other than the usual sensation of an unusually dry mouth, saliva usually seems overly thick, cracked lips, sores and splits on the side of the mouth, sore throat, bad breath, difficulty in speaking, as well as significantly altered sense of taste.
21090	Symptoms for dry skin include tightness of the skin, the appearance of dehydrated or shrunken skin, rough texture, cracks and lines, deep fissures, flaking and scaling, and redness. Among the identified body parts that are more prone to dryness include the arms, sides of the abdomen and the lower legs.
21091	Symptoms of dry socket include the total or partial loss of the blood clot on the site of the extraction, visible bone in the socket, pain that tends to radiates from the socket to the eye or ear, pain that increases after two to three days. It can also cause an unpleasant taste in the mouth, swollen lymph nodes and bad breath.
21092	Symptoms and characteristics of this disease included the limitation of abduction or the outward movement of the eye affected with this disease, less marked limitation of the inward movement of the affected eye, the eye opening widens when trying abduction, very poor convergence of the eye, patients will turn his/her face to the side of the affected eye to compensate for the limited eye movement and also to maintain two ocular vision.
21093	People with this disease have mild jaundice which will last for a lifetime. People also manifest a yellowish color of their skin and the white part of the eye.
21094	Symptoms largely vary among different patients, however other characteristics may include a soft but high pitched voice, webbing of fingers and toes but not totally, deformations of the palate, some abnormalities in the genitalia, eczema, being hyperactive, usualy prefer thinking concretely over abstracts, manifest difficulties in the language and are often scared of big crowds.
21095	Usually symptoms show in male before age 6 and may happen in early infancy. Progressive weakness of the muscle legs as well as the pelvis with a loss of muscle mass is noticed and latter spreads to the arms, neck, and other areas. Early signs may include increased calf muscles (pseudohypertrophy) size, low strength and endurance levels, and difficulties in standing up and walking on stairs. As the condition progresses, muscle tissue experiences wasting and fibrosis, and is latter replaced by fat and connective tissue. By age 10, braces may be required for walking, and most patients are limitted to a wheelchair by age 12. Late stage symptoms include the abnormal development of the bone that often leads to some marked skeletal deformities including the curvature of the patient's spine, progressive loss of movement that will eventually lead to complete paralysis, along with an increase in the difficulty in breathing. Intellectual retardation may be present but does not usually progress as the child develops and ages. The condition is considered terminal and death will naturally occur before the patient reaches the age of 30.
21096	does not display any initial signs and symptoms. This is the reason why it often goes undetected for years. In some women, they experience nipple discharges and lumps on the breast.
21097	Symptoms of dumping syndrome include vomiting, nausea, diarrhea, fatigue, heart palpitations, bloating and belching, abdominal pain and cramps. Other symptoms may manifest on a later stage such as weakness and fatigue, fainting, mental confusion, shakiness, diarrhea, anxiety, and sweating.
21099	In Dupuytren's disease, the connective tissues located within the patient's hand becomes abnormally thick, which then causes the fingers to develop into a definite curl, and often result in the impairment of the function of the fingers, particularly the small and ring fingers. It condition usually develop gradually on an onset, which often begins as a mere tender lump in the base of the palm. Over time, pain that is associated with the condition tends to go away, but the ough bands of tissue may continue to develop.
21100	Dust mite allergy share the common symptoms of allergic rhinitis such as sneezing, runny nose, swollen skin under the eyes, postnasal drip, cough, irritability nasal congestion and facial pain and pressure. For people who already have asthma, an allergy to dust mites further aggravates the symptoms, ranging from mild to severe.
21102	The reduction in the ability of the heart and circulatory system to compensate for changes in posture can cause dizziness or fainting when one stands suddenly. Severe migraines regularly happening and kidney failure to properly retain water are other symptoms.
21103	Affected people could possibly suffer stroke or paralysis, or even numbness down one side of the body. This can also lead to heart attack or pulmonary embolism. Shortness in breath and chest pain are initial symptoms.
21105	Dysfibrinogenemia, familial is known to exhibit the following symptoms: blood clots, prolonged time of blood clotting, asymptomatic, and abnormal bleeding. These symptoms may not be noticeable to the patients and may only be known by the doctors. Some "visible" symptoms include poor healing of wounds, and postsurgical bleeding.
21107	Strong ability in verbal skills but intensely poor skills in writing characterized by generally illegible writing; disordered numbering and reversing written numbers; inconsistent and unfinished words, numbers or letters; unusual grip in holding the writing instrument usually holding thumb over 2 fingers and writing from the wrist; talking to self when writing and unmindful on the lines and margins of paper are some of the common symptoms manifested by an individual with dysgraphia.
21108	Dyshidrosis is marked by small and often very itchy bumps. These growths would gradually progress to form rashes filed with fluid. Other symptoms may include cracks of fissures on the toes and fingers, pain, especially with the development of large blisters and intense itching.
21109	Symptoms of dyskeratosis congenita includes skin pigmentation, leukoplakia, and nail dystrophy. Apart from the failure in the bone marrow, patients can experience other clinical symptoms as well, some of which are: cutaneous findings, nail findings, mucosal findings, pulmonary complications, heightened malignancy risk, and neurologic, opthalmic, skeletal, genitourinary, and gastrointestinal system findings. The female carriers may exhibit less intensive clinical features.
21110	Symptoms of the disease include tongue rolling, dance-like or jerky head or arm movements. Such manifestations take place after years of use of the mentioned medications.
21112	Difficulty in analyzing spoken and written words, short-term memory impairment, difficulty in sequencing and organization of thoughts or words that have been heard, remarkable weakness in spelling and decoding words, and reversal of letters like "b" instead of "d" and words (was instead of saw) are common in dyslexic individuals.
21113	Most of the symptoms are not recognized until the child enters the age where he is about to learn cognitive ideas. The symptoms include the indifference to new words or thoughts being taught to him, inability to follow ideas, as well as slow development in learning how to read, write and calculate.
21114	The symptoms of dyslexia are slow reading, writing in reverse, and difficulty in comprehending lessons.
21114	Children who exhibit dyslexia show symptoms such as trouble in sequencing things and events, learning how to read and write, recognize letters and numbers, and as well show indifference to the lessons taught inside the classroom.
21115	Dull or excruciating pain in the lower abdomen that can be extremely severe to enable performing normal daily routines, which may radiate in the lower back and thighs. This is sometimes combined with sweating, dizziness, nausea and vomiting, and loose stools.
21116	There are no specific symptoms of the disorder.
21117	Patients with dysmorphophobia normally possess a history of frequent visits to cosmetic surgeons or dermatologists without finding any successful results afterwards. These frequent visits may explain the patients' attemtps to reassure themselves of their physical appearance. However, they do not usually realize that their physical flaw is very minor or totally nonexistent. Patients suffering from this disorder will continually agonize over imaginary physical defects.
21118	People who suffer from dysmotility experience abdominal pain. The food doesn't pass through the stomach and the intestines too. The nerves in the gastrointestinal tract do not function properly as well.
21119	Symptoms associated with dysostosis include loose joints, incomplete or the absence of collar bone, the ability to grasp the shoulders together infront of one's body, short fingers, short forearms, low nasal bridge, frontal bossing, and tooth problems.
21120	Medical researchers estimate that there are roughly about 60 percent of women who experience such episodes of genital pain. This occurs before, after and during intercourse. Symptoms include pain with every penetration, superficial pain, deep pain and burning pain.
21121	Dyspeptic symptoms can happen together with gastritis, viral gastroenteritis, stomach ulcer, stomach cancer, disease of the gallbladder, disease of the pancreas, inflammatory bowel disease, pregnancy and diabetes mellitus. Dyspepsia symptoms: may or may not be a combination of nausea, regurgitation, vomiting, heartburn, abdominal fullness which is prolonged, stomach pain and easily feeling full.
21122	The symptoms of nonulcer dyspepsia include gas, belching, nausea, bloating, as well as a burning sensation on the lower chest or upper abdomen. Often, an unhealthy lifestyle may greatly contribute to the development of this medical condition. Other factors that can trigger include stress, fatigues in sufficient rest, lack of exercise and poor diet.
21123	Pain is experienced when swallowing which results to unable to swallow leading to choking or coughing while eating. Difficulty may result to sensation that the food is stuck in throat, chest or behind the breastbone. Regurgitation or the act of bringing the food back up may also be present in addition to heartburn and gagging when swallowing. Other symptoms include food and stomach acid backing up into the throat. Severe cases of dysphagia in infants and children show the following: lack of attention during feeding, lengthy feeding or eating times, food or liquid leaking in the mouth, and vomiting during feeding or eating.
21124	Children with dysphasia usually have trouble naming things. Early on the child finds it hard to come up with a simple sentence describing how he feels.
21125	Dysplastic nevi can appear in different areas of the body; both in sun-exposed and sun-protected portions of the body usually presenting some of the following symptoms: acute pain characterized by pricking or burning sensation, presence of moles with irregular and jagged borders that are dry, rough to the touch, and sensitive, which are usually pink, brown, tan or the same color to the skin.
21126	The moles appear larger than normal that appear like pigmented lesions and typically measuring 8-15 in diameter. The moles usually grow more frequently on the scalp, breast, buttocks, and chest.
21127	Remarkable delay in reaching developmental milestones often resulting to inability to run, hop or jump; difficulty in going up and down the stairs, difficulty in dressing, immature and incomprehensible speech resulting to impaired or delayed language development is often seen in children with dyspraxia. Difficulty in remembering and following instructions and poor handwriting are also symptoms of the condition. Adults with dyspraxia have difficulty in performing routine daily tasks like personal grooming and household chores.
21128	Dysrhythmias are primarily characterized by growth of noncancerous tumors in some parts of the body. Among the most common symptoms include abnormalities of the skin such as the development of light-colored skin patches and facial lesions. For tumors in the brain, common symptoms can include seizures, learning disabilities, mental retardation and developmental delays.
21129	As the Greek word "dysthymia" literally means ill humor or bad state of mind, depression is the chief symptom of this medical condition that can last for a limited period of time or drag on for years. Other symptoms include loss of appetite, excessive sleep or insomnia, fatigue and low energy, low self-esteem and general feeling of hopelessness.
21130	Depression occurring most of the day, more days than not usually lasting for two years either continually or on and off is often the main symptom of the condition usually accompanied by any combination of the following symptoms: loss of appetite or overeating; insomnia or hypersomnia; fatigue; low self-confidence, decision-making difficulty; poor concentration, and feeling of hopelessness.
21131	Among the most common symptoms of dystonia includes poor posture and uncontrollable twitching and some repetitive actions that can hamper natural movements of the afflicted person.
21132	One of the major symptoms of cervical dystonia is the uncontrollable spasm of the neck that may even be quite painful. Other accompanying symptoms include the uneven shape of the head of the infant, limited range of motion, neck pain, tremor, headache, stiffness of the neck muscles and enlargement of muscles in the neck
21133	Among the common symptoms associated with Dystrophia myotonica include muscle degeneration and weakness, myotonia, muscle atrophy, amenorrhea, cataract, gonadal insufficiency, dysmenorrhea, myopathic face as well as testicular atrophy. Severe cases may also include some psychomotor retardation, infant edema and hematoma.
21134	The symptoms of the disease include scoliosis, dislocated hipbone, cardio-pulmonary problems, club foot, and complications in the gastrointestinal tract.
21135	Since Eale's disease largely affects the eyes, symptoms associated with this medical condition includes inflammation of the retaina and neovascularization. Some vaaascular sheathing may also be detected on the adjacent layer of the nerve layer, which is usually manifested by some white lines.
21136	Middle ear infection can be a little difficult to detect, especially when the child may too young to complain of pain in the ears. Symptoms often include constant pulling or tugging of the ear, failure to respond to sounds, trouble sleeping, headaches, develop fever and unusually irritable.
21137	Symptoms of a ruptured eardrum includes discharges of clear and often pus-filled from the ear, hearing loss, ringing in the ear, and sharp and often sudden pain or discomfort.
21138	Symptoms of early menopause usually include irregular menstrual periods, hot flashes and night sweats, dryness of the vagina, as well as the irritability and difficulty in concentration.
21139	Symptoms of early puberty among girls include early menstruation and breast growth that may often be detected at the age of 8 or 9. For boys, signs include the enlargement of testicles and penis, deepening of the voice and growth of facial hair. For both genders, there can be an early growth of underarm hair and pubic hair, acne, and adult body odor.
21140	Among the signs and symptoms of ear blockage are earaches, feeling of fullness in the involved ear, ear noise or tinnitus, and decreased hearing in the involved ear.
21141	People who suffer from binge eating encounter sudden urges to eat (and overeat) based on their emotions. While they eat a lot, they also tend to fast or starve themselves at random instances.
21142	People who are infected with Ebola hemorrhagic fever usually develop sudden fever, muscle pain, weakness, sore throat, and , headache, that can be followed by some episode of vomiting, rash, diarrhea as well as limited liver and kidney functions along with some external and internal bleeding.
21143	Individuals with Ebstein's anomaly suffer from rapid heart rhythm, which is medically called supraventricular tachycardia. This symptom would also cause palpitations, often ushering other complications such as bouts of dizziness, fainting and chest discomforts.
21144	A person with echolalia is observed to be uncontrollably repeating words or phrases other people say.
21145	The primary warning sign of eclampsia is seizures in pregnant women coupled with abnormally high blood pressure. It may also be coupled with blurry vision, occasional blindness, and convulsions. Other symptoms may not be evident as it creates internal complications that may not be detected right away. This includes liver and kidney malfunctions.
21146	Patients with Ectodermal dysplasia usually have sparse or absent hair and skin usually appear abnormally light and thin. Patients may also suffer from chronic nasal infections dues to predisposed problems on the nasal lining. Teeth may also be noticeably absent or appear to have developed abnormally.
21147	Along with the evident malformation of the heart, neonates may also have cleft palate, spinal defects, and pulmonary atresia. Most of the Ectopia cordis patients have C curvature on the thoracic spine as well as kyphosis.
21148	The condition may not cause symptoms but affected individuals experience odd sensations on their chest such as flip-flops, fluttering, pounding or jumping, skipped or missed beats, and increased awareness of the heartbeat.
21149	The early symptoms of ectopic pregnancy may either be absent or very subtle. Among the indicators in lower abdominal pain, pain during urination, mild vaginal bleeding, as well as pain during bowel movement.
21150	This medical condition appears during birth and symptoms would naturally include the malformations of the hand and/ or feet of the infant.
21151	Red to brownish-gray colored patches which is usually composed of small, raised bumps that may leak fluid and crust over when scratched is the primary manifestation of eczema. In some cases, eczema presents itself as thickened, cracked, and scaly appearance in the skin. Both cases are associated with itching usually severe during night time. Eczema is commonly found on the hands and feet, arms, ankles, face, wrists, behind the knees, upper chest, and neck; though they may appear anywhere in the body.
21152	The condition manifests with small, itchy bumps that develops into a rash made up of blisters or vesicles. Other signs and symptoms include intense itching, cracks or grooves on the fingers and toes, and pain especially if there are large blisters.
21153	The primary sign of an erectile dysfunction is the inability of a man to maintain an erection sufficient for sexual intercourse at least 25 percent of the time. Though occasional inability to maintain an erection happens to most men, it should be evaluated if the problem is ongoing since it may have underlying causes that need treatment.
21154	Swelling or puffiness of the tissue sunder the skin, stretched or shiny skin, skin that retains a dimple after being pressed for several seconds, and increased abdominal size are among the symptoms of edema.
21155	Patients with Edward's syndrome have unusually small head with prominent back along with ear malformation and are markedly low-set. The infant's mouth and jaw also appear abnormally small along with the possibility of a cleft palate or cleft lip. Hands also appear to be tightly clenched like fists with overlapping fingers.
21156	Egg allergy symptoms may differ from person to another. This may include skin inflammation, allergic asthma, hives, allergic nasal inflammation and gastrointestinal symptoms such as vomiting and nausea. In severe cases, anaphylaxis may occur, in which case the airways are blocked causing difficulty in breathing. This is a serious allergic reaction that requires immediate medical attention.
21157	Among the known symptoms that is associated with the allergic reactions with egg hypersensitivity include rashes and itches, trouble in breathing, eczema, vomiting, nausea, runny nose, swelling around the oral cavity, red skin, abdominal cramps, watery eyes, asthma symptoms, and sneezing.
21158	Ehlers-Danlos Syndrome is associated with a number of symptoms that involves stretchy skin, as well as noticeably translucent skin with highly visible veins. This type of condition is often more evident in the neck, knees and elbows.
21159	Symptoms involve with Ehrlichiosis may initially present like symptoms of flu that includes chills and fever, headache, nausea and muscle aches. As the condition progresses, the infected person may suffer from other signs such as diarrhea, red rashes, malaise and bleeding in the skin.
21160	The symptoms of measles include red spots on the surface of the skin, fever, sensitivity to light, coughing and colds. The neck becomes swollen and the spots soon become rashes after a week.
21161	Among the most common symptoms of Eisenmenger's syndrome may vary on mild and severe include, cyanosis, fatigue, chest pains, palpitations, shortness of breath, fainting, blurred vision, hemorrhage, brain abscess, gout and possible stroke.
21162	Among the most common symptoms of elective mutism include use of gestures instead to replying, nodding, depression, anxiety and shyness. This symptom are usually evident during childhood where children may tend to show an excessive emotional sensibility.
21163	I view of its name, elephantiasis denotes the massive swelling or enlargement of the lymphatic vessels. For patients who suffer acute infections, other symptoms would include fever, pain in an above the testicles, white urinary discharges, as well as swollen spleen and liver.
21164	The symptoms and signs of Ellis Van Creveld syndrome are frequently apparent at birth. These would include abnormally short stature, narrow chest and short ribs, extra toes and fingers and short forearms and legs.
21165	The symptoms for Emery-Dreifuss muscular dystrophy include gradual muscle weakness, palpitations, congestive heart failure and poor tolerance to exercise. It can have a severe manifestation even in childhood or develop as a slow progressive disease in adulthood.
21166	One major symptom of emetophobia is nausea, which then induces further anxiety. Emetophobes behave rather very strangely and have a number of different ways of doing everyday routines and tasks. Other symptoms include breathlessness, dry mouth and excessive sweating. Patients with this phobia have the tendency to shake and tremble. They have the inability to think clearly and they become psychologically unstable.
21167	The most common symptom of emphysema is shortness of breath. Cough, at times caused by the production of mucus, and wheezing may also be symptoms of emphysema. Indications of emphysema include pursed-lipped breathing, central cyanosis and finger clubbing. In advanced cases of this disease, there are a number of signs of overload of fluid such as in the pitting peripheral edema.
21168	Each patient will experience symptoms differently. In addition to high fluid pressure in the skull, which occurs in about 10 percent of patients, another symptom is a chronically runny nose. The patients will also have unusual facial features, headaches and vision problems.
21169	A person with empyema may experience some or all of the following symptoms: dry cough, fever that is high enough to develop chills, general feelings of discomfort and uneasiness, too much sweating, chest pain that worsens during deep inhalation, shortness of breath and loss of weight.
21170	Fever, headache and photophobia with weakness and seizures are common symptoms for encephalitis.Stiffness of the neck can occur with rare cases of patients. Stiffness of the limbs, slowness in movement and clumsiness depending on which part of the brain is involved is also present. Another key symptom of Encephalitis includes hallucination.
21171	Patients with encephalitis lethargica have high fever, sore throat, headache & double vision. They also have delayed physical and mental response.Majority of the patients may also suffer and experience some abnormal rapid eye movements, upper body weakness,parkinsonism, tremors, muscular pains, neck rigidity, along with marked behavioral changes that includes psychosis.
21172	Patients with hydrocephalus is a an associated abnormalities of encephalocele. Other symptoms include paralysis of the arms and legs, abnormally small head, developmental delay, problems with their visions, mental and growth retardation and seizures.It is also a genetic condition wherein families have a history of spina bifida and anencephaly in family members.
21173	Manifestations of this defect include absence of the skull and brain, abnormalities in facial feature, and heart defects.
21174	This disease is often misdiagnosed as severe attach of MS because its symptoms are similar to multiple sclerosis. Initial symptoms include fatigue, fever, headache, nausea and vomiting. There will be behavioral changes such as irritability; there will changes on child's consciousness such as seizure. Visual disturbances, difficulty coordinating muscle movement and weakness of the limb are the other symptoms caused by myelin damage.
21175	The disorder may cause an extensive range of symptoms. These symptoms include visual problems, weakness of exertional muscle, sensory tolerance changes, difficulties with speech and coordination, cognitive impairment, severe fatigability, balance problems, body pain, and poor or subnormal body temperature control.
21177	Signs and symptoms of encopresis may include leakage of stool or liquid stool on your child's underwear when he or she isn't sick, constipation and dry, hard stool, passage of large stool that clogs or almost clogs the toilet, avoidance of bowel movements, lack of appetite, and abdominal pain.
21178	Among the symptoms of chronic renal failure are extreme urinary tract infections, pain and swelling of the renal area, high fever and chills, abdominal pain and inability of the renal organs to function normally.
21179	For complete atrioventricular canal defect, signs and symptoms usually develop in the first several weeks of life. Among the symptoms are difficulty in breathing (dyspnea), lack of appetite, poor weight gain, and bluish discoloration of the lips and skin (cyanosis). Symptoms for the complete type of endocardial cushion effect include fatigue and wekness, persistent cough or wheezing with white or pink blood-tinged phlegm, swelling or edema, sudden weight gain from fluid retention, decreased alertness, and irregular or rapid heartbeat. Abnormal heart rhythm, congestive heart failure, and high blood pressure in the lungs are among the symptoms for the partial type. They usually occur in the 20s and 30s since they are usually related to complications that develop because of the condition.
21180	Following symptoms like feeding difficulty, excessive sweating, breathlessness, failure to thrive, and wheezing can be seen on patient with this disorder .
21181	Symptoms of endocarditis may include fever, fatigue, loss of appetite, night sweats, chills, headaches, joint discomfort, and tiny pinpoint-sized hemorrhages on the chest and back, fingers, or toes. The physician may also detect a new heart murmur and small hemorrhages in the mucous membranes of the eyes during physical examination.
21182	Symptoms of Infective edocarditis include, fever due to unknown cause or often caused by some septic emboli, the presence of micro-organisms in our bloodstream, vegetations on the valves on echocardiography, vascular phenomena of septic emboli, Janeway lesions or some painless hemorrhagic cutaneous swells growing in the palms and soles, hemorrhage (intracranial, conjunctival, splinter), Immunologic phenomena, Osler's nodes, Glomerulonephritis, Roth's spots in the retina, and a positive factor for serum rheumatoid.
21183	Symptoms will vary widely depending on the endocrine gland affected or what hormones are affected. It may include abnormality in the different fucntions of the body like metabolism, bone growth and other associated disorders and symptoms.
21184	Endometrial cancer has several symptoms including prolonged periods or bleeding between periods, more frequent vaginal bleeding or spotting during the years leading to menopause, any bleeding after the time of menopause, a pink, watery or white discharge from the vagina, pelvic pain late in the disease, pain during intercourse, and weight loss.
21184	A hallmark sign of endometrial cancer is abnormal vaginal bleeding. It is easiest to detect among postmenopausal females whose menstrual periods have ceased. However, there are also cases where endometrial cancer occurs in women under 40 years of age. Other symptoms of endometrial cancer are: prolonged bleeding between periods; more frequent bleeding/spotting of the vagina in the years prior to menopause; any sign of bleeding post-menopause; vaginal discharges that are described as pinkish and watery; pain in the pelvis; pain during intercourse; and weight loss.
21185	Uterine polyps often cause no symptoms. Nevertheless, signs may include irregular menstrual bleeding, bleeding between menstrual periods, excessively heavy menstrual periods, vaginal bleeding after menopause, and infertility.
21186	Major symptom of this disorder is severe often recurring pain. Other symptoms of endometriosis include painful and sometimes disabling cramps or dysmenorrhea, chronic pain which is very typical in the lower back, pelvis and abdominal, nausea accompanied by frequent vomiting, dyspareunia, obstruction in the bowel function, complete retension of urine, dyschezia or dysuria, premenstrual spotting or bleeding in between periods, menorrhagia, infertility and subfertility. Endometriosis may also lead to obstruction of the fallopian tube.
21187	Some of the possible symptoms a patient may manifest will include cardiomyopathy, skin lesions, thromboembolic disease, pulmonary disease, neuropathy, hepatosplenomegaly, and reduced ventricular size.
21188	Symptoms of Enetophobia usually includes rapid breathing, sweating, shortness of breath, often irregular heartbeat, nausea, and an overall feeling of being dread. Symptoms may also vary as everyone has enetophobia in their very own way which may entail different symptoms.
21189	The main characteristic of enuresis is the involuntary urinating of the child during his sleep. Enuresis has two kinds: primary and secondary bedwetting. Primary bedwetting is when the child wets his bed while asleep and stays dry after he is cleaned up. Secondary bedwetting meanwhile is when the person wets his bed twice; first during his sleep, and the second after he was dried up.
21190	Some people with cardiomegaly or enlarged heart don't present any sign or symptoms. Some symptoms that patient will present with enlarged heart may experience shortness of breath (SOB), difficulty of breathing (DOB), dizziness, arrhythmia (abnormal heart rhythm) or edema (swelling).
21191	Hepatomegaly often does not have symptoms but in some cases, the following may be noted: tenderness if the liver enlarges quickly, abdominal pain or fullness, and jaundice.
21192	The severity of prostate enlargement varies among men and does not always pose a problem. About fifty percent of men who have the condition do not experience noticeable signs and symptoms. Among the signs and symptoms of the condition are weak urine systems, difficulty, or trouble in urination, blood in the urine, and urinary tract infection.
21193	Though most cases of an enlarged spleen often do not cause signs or symptoms, some affected individuals experience pain in the upper abdomen or pain that spreads to the left shoulder. Some people may also feel full even without eating or after eating a small amount of food once the enlarged spleen presses against the stomach. Tiredness or weakness may also be experienced when the enlarged spleen removes too many red blood cells from the blood.
21194	Symptoms of an enlarged thyroid include swelling of the neck, a tight feeling in the throat, coughing, difficulty in swallowing, and difficulty in breathing. Other underlying causes of the condition may also result to several signs and symptoms.
21195	The usual symptoms during the first stage are high fever, headache, abdominal pain, sore throat, weakness and anxiety, rash and constipation or diarrhea. During the second stage, continuing fever, diarrhea that has a pea-soup consistency or serious constipation, weight loss, extremely swollen abdomen. By the later stage patient is delirious, lies motionless and exhausted.
21196	Mild enterocele may not produce signs or symptoms but patients with the more sever case will experience a pulling sensation in the pelvis that eases when lying down, a feeling of pelvic fullness, pressure, or pain, low back pain, a soft bulge of tissue in the vagina, vaginal discharge and bleeding, and vaginal discomfort and painful intercourse. Related conditions such as rectocele, cystocele, and uterine prolapse may also occur due to the weakening of the pelvic floor muscles.
21197	Among the general symptoms of patients with enterocolitis are pain in the lower abdominal area, fever, chills, weight loss and frequent discomfort after eating. This is due to the perforations that already occurred in the intestines.
21198	Among the symptoms of entropion are pain and redness in the affected eye, sagging skin around the eye, abnormal sensitivity to light and dust, decreased vision and uncontrollable tearing.
21198	Among the symptoms of the condition are sensitivity to light, sagging of the skin surrounding the eye, redness and itchiness of the eye, frequent tearing and reduced vision.
21199	Involuntary urination at night is the main characteristic of enuresis.
21201	There are several symptoms of eosinophilia and often in involves those of the underlying condition. In example, an eosinophilia condition which is due to asthma manifest symptoms like wheezing and breathlessness. Parasitic infections also lead to fever, abdominal pain, diarrhea, or cough accompanied with rashes. Drug reactions also give rise to rashes, which often times occur right after taking drugs new to them. Some other symptoms of eosinophilia which are usually rare include enlargement of the lymph node, weight loss, sweating at night, other rashes in the skin, and sometimes a patient will feel numb with tingling because of nerve damage.
21202	The symptoms of the disease include heartburn, chest pain and occasional dysphagia.
21203	Symptoms of this condition includes swelling of the fascia and skin associated with other symptoms like puckering and also swelling of the skin from the arms to the legs which may look really bumpy like that of an orange's skin, aching or pain in the arms and the legs accompanied with arthritis involving the hands and also the wrists, restriction or limittedness of movement of the wrist, ankles, the hands, elbows, and the shoulders There are even times that it reaches the point where patienst can't anymore move.
21204	Eosinophilic gastroenteritis is most commonly associated with a combination of some chronic nonspecific symptoms. These include vomiting, pain in the abdomen, nausea, diarrhea, loss of weight, and some abdominal distension. A relatively high clinical suspicion is often times required in order to establish the diagnosis because the disease is very rare. Although sometimes, the disease may present itself as an acute obstruction in the abdomen or bowel obstruction.
21205	Eosinophilic granuloma is often associated with abnormal lesions in the muscles or bone areas.
21206	Some of the symptoms of Ependymoblastoma often includes the following: patients also have symptoms even at an early stages, pain, headache, swell that occur for no reason at all, and lump which are usually painful, fever, weight loss, lethargy, nausea, weakness, vision problems like color blindedness or blurry, loss of balance, patients experience seizures, incoordination, Eye movement problems, enlarged head especially in young children, reduced muscle tone, back pain, and leg pain.
21207	Patients who suffer from this condition often manifest symptoms although they may differ from a person to another.It includes frequent headaches, seizures, frequent nausea and also vomiting, loss of balance or trouble walking.
21208	Patients having the condition often complains pain of the lateral elbow and also the forearm especially when they move. Most patient of this condition are men or women belonging to the age group of 35 to 55 years who are either a recreational athlete or one who often engages in a rigorous daily activity or activities for that matter. Upon examination of the affected area, the patient reach a point of maximal tenderness located just 5 to 10 mm to the lateral epicondyle area. Extension or supination of the wrist against resistance with the extended elbow usually provoke the patient's symptoms.
21210	Patients inhibiting symptoms of Epidermoid carcinoma manifests scaly lesions in the different parts of the body like urinary bladder, skin, mouth, lips, esophagus, prostate, lungs, vagina, and also the cervix.
21211	Occuring on nearly any part of the body, including the fingernails, these round epidermoid cysts are sacs generally moving freely ranging in size from a few millimeters to five centimeters where most of them are found on the neck, face and trunk.
21212	Most common symptoms of patients are skin blisters.
21213	In some cases patients manifests symptoms like scaling and skin blisters on the solesof the feet and palms. However, not all manifest such symptoms. Scaling is usually seen on various parts of the body which are often concentrated near or around the joints area. Babies affected with this disease are called "enfant br√lΘe" which is French terms for "burned child", because often times they look red and often have a very fragile top layer of the skin which very easily forms blisters and also wounds which can be caused by diapers, or even just by touching the baby's skin.
21214	Treatments for Epididymitis include the administration of antibiotics like Doxycycline, scrotum elevation, regular application of cold compresses to the scrotum. In severe cases, hospitalisation is an option including check-ups to make sure the infection has been treated. A procedure called as a cord block is usually done when all traditional methods are not effective. Using this treatment, the pain is usually controlled for 2-3 months but only in ideal conditions or a patient may decide whether to have the whole epididymis removed taking with it the pain.
21215	The symptoms of epidural hematoma may occur immediately or several weeks after a blow to the head. Pressure on the brain increases as time passes, which produces various symptoms including headache, nausea, vomiting, dizziness, confusion, slurred speech or loss of ability to speak, pupils of unequal size, and weakness in limbs on one side of the body. Once more blood fills the brain of the narrow space between the brain and skull, the affected person may experience lethargy, seizures, and unconsciousness.
21216	The symptoms of the disease include fever, chills, sore throat, difficulty in swallowing, stridor and drooling. The symptoms progress in a fast rate, which can lead to other complications such as asphyxiation and cyanosis.
21217	Symptoms occur as a form of frequent seizures which will get as strong as to have the patient out balanced or fall to the ground.
21219	Some people suffering absence seizures have movements without a purpose during their attacks, like a jerking arm or a rapid blinking of the eyes. Others patients though don't have any noticeable symptoms, only for very short times when they are "out of it." Right after a seizure attack, the patient can immediately resume whatever it is he or she was busy with. These attacks can happen for only a few times one day or in some rare cases, can happen as often as hundreds of times in a day to a point that the patient cannot anymore concentrate in school or other daily things that they do. Absence epilepsy during childhood often times stops when the patient reaches his/her puberty stage. This condition usually don't have any lasting effect on the intelligence or other functions of the brain.
21220	The main symptoms of the inflammation are redness of the eyes, discomfort and soreness.
21220	The main symptoms of the inflammation are redness of the eyes, discomfort and soreness.
21221	The main symptom of an epispadias is a deformed penis. In some cases severe pain is experienced. For women, less sexual sensation is experienced during intercourse, since the the clitoris is bifurcated because of the malformation.
21222	This condition is often presented by soreness of the muscle,a fever, sore throat, and stress or fatigue. In some cases, patients may also manifest different symptoms such as enlargement of the spleen, abdominal pain, muscle aches, headache, loss of appetite, a feeling of depression,skin rashes, diarrhea, dizziness or being disoriented, nncontrollable shaking sometimes, difficulties swallowing because of an enlarged tonsils, dry cough, and Supra-orbital oedema.
21223	Symtoms would include the obvious. Patients with this condition often find it difficult to approach horses or even show signs of great fear even at a glance of a horse.
21224	The Erb's paralysis may be partial or even complete for some patients. The damage of the nerve can range from either just bruising or in severe cases, tearing. Most commonly the root that is involved is the Erb's point or the union of the roots C5 and C6. This roots is most common because this is the farthest point, mechanically, from the force of traction. The nerves, which are most commonly involved are the axillary nerve, the suprascapular nerve, musculocutaneous nerve.
21225	Patients with Erdheim-Chester syndrome manifests symptoms like bone pain, retroperitoneal fibrosis, diabetes insipidus, exophthalmos, xanthomas, neurological signs, and Dyspnea which is caused by thickening of the interlobular septal and pleural tissues.
21226	People suffering this mental condition often are not sociable, quiet and one who prefers working alone rather than in groups.
21227	Patient may manifest high fevers, shaking, chills, fatigue, headaches, and vomiting, within 48 hours of acute infection. The rashes enlarge rapidly in the body. It describe as a red, swelling, warm to touch, hardened and painful rash. In severe infection, it will become watery and pus is present, bullae, and petechiae. If not treated necroses of the skin, swelling of the lymph node and lymphedema may occur.
21228	The most common symptom of erysipeloid are swollen hands. Erysipelas also occur but more often in the hands and arms.
21229	When one has contracted erythema, the main symptom would be that of lesions developing in the arms and legs. These lesions grow and multiply until they disfigure the tissues inside the body. Extreme itchiness may be experienced, as well as fever and chills.
21230	The signs and symptoms of parvovirus infection include slight fever, itching, sore throat, headache, upset stomach and fatigue among children during the early face of the infection. They may also feel well during the early phase but some may develop mild, cold-like signs early in the illness. A distinctive bright red facial rash usually appears on both cheeks several days later and eventually, the rash may extend to the trunk, thighs, arms and buttocks, where the rash has a pink, lacy, slightly raised appearance. Adults may experience joint soreness (arthralgia) as a symptom of parvovirus infection and may last from days to weeks, affecting their wrists, hands, knees and ankles.
21231	It is characterized by mildly itchy, pink-red blotches, with a pink-red ring around and a pale center and spreads from extremities to trunks. Common affected are young people and men are more prone than the female
21232	The characterized red and tender nodules of the disorder typically appear on one's shins. These nodules can be one or more, reddened and painful, found on the lower leg's anterior surface, seldom found on one's arm or trunk, can feel warm when touched, and not ulcerated. Accompanying symptoms of erythema nodosum include joint aches, fever, general ill feeling, leg swelling or swelling on affected area, and skin irritation, inflammation, or redness.
21233	Erythrasma is a condition typically located in moist body folds as in the groin and inner thighs, under the arms (axillae) and between the toes, especially between the 4th and 5th toes and less commonly, it can be found in the buttock crevice or in the folds underneath the breasts. Some people, especially those with diabetes, the infection can become widespread and can involve the arms, trunk and legs.
21234	This skin disorder is manifested by diffuse redness, scaly skin or skin peeling, warm and thickened rash that could be affected the whole body or some are just part of the patient's body.
21235	Erythromelalgia is most prominently manifested by episodes of erythema, inflamation, and a very painful burning sensation especially in the extremities. These symptoms usually are symmetric and usually affect the legs or the lower extremities. Symptoms may likewise affect the patient's face and ears. Attacks are typically preceded by the real primary condition of the patient. Attacks in primary erythromelalgia could last from short minutes to very long hours and also occur not very often to multiple times in a day. Common triggers for attacks are heating of the affected area, exertion, and consumption of alcohol or caffeine. In some cases, patients consumption of sugar and sometimes even melon, also is believed to have provoke attacks.
21236	The symptoms of this disease are episodes of erythema, swelling, warm to touch and with a burning pain sensation in the upper and lower extremities but common affected are upper extremities. It also affects the ears and face. The attack infrequently and will last from minutes to hours.
21237	Symptoms of this condition often presented as a red macule or a plaque with borders which are well-demarcated. The texture is appears very soft and also velvety.
21238	Erythropoietic protoporphyria often is associated with the most common symptom which is a very painful photosensitivity, which is presented as a burning sensation on the surface of the skin. This usually first presents in childhood, and affects the face as swell as the upper surfaces of the hands and the feet most of the time. A very prolonged exposure to the heat of the sun can cause edema and blistering.
21239	The main symptom of protoporphyria, erythropoietic is painful photosensitivity in the skin. The skin then suffers a burning sensation when exposed to light. The disease begins to develop during childhood and can be seen on the face as well as the hands and feet. Long term exposure to the sun can lead to edema and blistering. Persons with the disease are more susceptible to acquiring gallstones and liver failure.
21240	Seven days after infection with the Escherichia coli symptoms start to appear including sudden and severe abdominal cramps followed by watery diarrhea. If left uncontrollable, dehydration may result due to loss of fluid brought about by the diarrhea leading to fatigue and sick feeling. As the infection progresses, bright red bloody stools will take the place of diarrhea caused by soreness of the intestine; usually combined with symptoms such as fever, nausea and vomiting.
21241	Symptoms manifested by patients with Esophageal atresia have difficulty in swallowing or is not able to swallow.
21242	The most common symptom but occurs late in the disease of esophageal cancer is difficulty of swallowing (dysphagia), hoarseness and sensation of food getting stuck in your throat or chest but these symptoms usually don't appear until cancer is quite advanced.
21243	Esophageal disorders symptoms will vary depending on what part of the esophagus is affected and the extent of the problem. It often includes difficulty in swallowing. Other problems will arise as secondary to the primary problem of swallowing difficulties.
21244	Among the symptoms of esophageal diverticulum are difficulty in swallowing, and sore throat. This is common among people above the age of 50 and is rarely seen on children.
21245	Symptoms manifested by patients with esophageal neoplasm often include dysplasia or a state of being unable to swallow. It may also include odynophagia, substancial loss of weight because of very poor nutrition, pain, husky voice, raspy voice, nausea, vomitting, and coughing.
21247	The condition may occur in two forms namely diffuse spasms and nutcracker esophagus. Diffuse spasms are simultaneous or irregular contractions of esophageal muscles that slow down the progress of food towards the stomach. Nutcracker esophagus meanwhile is the more painful contraction of the esophageal muscles. Both forms have common signs and symptoms including chest pain, difficulty in swallowing, regurgitation, and heartburn.
21248	The symptoms of esophageal stricture include swallowing problems, choking, and a swollen esophagus.
21249	The most common symptom of esophageal ulcers us burning pain, which is caused by the ulcer and aggravated by stomach acid encountering the ulcerated area. Though very rare, severe ulcers may cause vomiting of blood, dark blood in stools, nausea or vomiting, unexplained weight loss, and chest pain.
21250	There is no direct symptom associated to Esophageal varices although bleeding is very common and pain in the esophagus when swallowing.
21252	People with Esotropia will manifest different symptoms of having the condition since there are different type of esotropia like the right, left or alternating type, concomitant type, incomitant type, or the primary, secondary or consecutive types.
21253	Commonly HPN is an asymptomatic disorder. Blood pressure measurement is the only sign that indicates if a person is hypertensive. Some patients also shows headache, fatigue, vertigo, blurred vision, tinnitus, anxiety and irritability. Late stage of HPN also called as malignant hypertension or accelerated hypertension with the symptoms of headache and blurred vision associated with somnolence, confusion, and visual disturbances.
21254	Essential mixed cryoglobulinemia usually display symptoms such as joint pain, enlargement of the spleen, purpura and diseases affecting the nerve and kidneys.
21255	Low platelet level cannot determine through physical appearance right away. They are only determining through CBC or complete blood count . Sometimes patient may show bruising, nosebleeds and/or bleeding gums.
21256	The common manifestations of essential thrombocytosis are bleeding and thrombosis (blood clot). Include also nosebleeds, bleeding of the gums and gastrointestinal tract, throbbing and burning pain of the hands and feet due to arterial obstruction of blood clot and another manifestation is enlargement of spleen.
21257	The tremor often begins gradually and occurs when your hands are in use. It appears sometimes during mid to late life or during adolescence stage. Trembling is the most remarkable and significant trait of the condition. It can also affect your head, tongue, up and down movements of your hands and arms.
21258	The urine of the patient is not normal; it has strange amount or type of organic acids. Developmental delay also seen in this patient like slow growth and poor feeding.
21259	The symptoms that the patient with evan's syndrome may experience the same symptoms of thrombocytopenia and anemia, such as bleeding, bruising, dizziness and low RBC and platelet count in complete blood count.
21260	It's characteristics of ewing's sarcoma is pain in the site of Ediaphysis or metaphysis, weakening and wasting of the bone and malformation of bone.
21261	Hyperhydrosis is presented by the frequent and excessive sweating of hands and feet as well as underarms. This sweating occurs whenever changes in environment and emotional stress arise.
21262	People who suffer from exhibitionism act normally, apart from random episodes in which they express high self confidence in performing stunts and annoying attitudes in public.
21263	The Symptoms of Exogenous Lipoid pneumonia are commonly shows pallor, difficulty of breathing, shortness of breathing, low oxygen saturation and cough. The appearance of the lungs are pale yellow. This yellow is term as "golden" pneumonia in the microscope the foamy macrophages and giant cell are seen and inflammatory response is also visible.
21264	It is characterized by bulging of an eye more than 18 mm, that it's almost going out of the orbit bone. The patient is unable to close his or her eyes, can cause dryness of the cornea. Displacement of the eyes can lead to blindness due to optic nerve and ophthalmic arteries compression.
21265	The symptoms that may experience to the patient is the same with exostosis, there is pain in the abnormal part of the bony area.
21266	It is characterized by chronic pain ranging from modrateto severe pain and it depends on the area of the abnormal bone. Commonly happen in he ear. Some cases cause complication like infection and hearing loss.
21267	It usually dcahracterized as an explosion, roar or a ringing noise in their head. Commonly occurs before falling asleep,but also happen during the day timel.but the patient does not experience pain in their head. The attack is unpredicrable and unstable. It is accompanied by flashes of light or difficulty in breathing. These symptoms may be distressing to the patient.
21268	The symptoms of XDR-TB include lethargy, weight loss, night sweats and fever. Other common symptoms for TB are also present such as coughing up blood and chest pain.
21269	External compression headaches are often described with a pain that causes constant pressure. The pain progresses in the past of the head where the object is pressed.
21270	A few days after exposure to contaminated water, symptoms may occur including severe pain on moving the outer ear, pain or discomfort in or around the ear, itching of the outer ear, swelling of the ear or lymph nodes in the neck, pus draining from the ear, and decreased or muffled hearing. The outer ear may also appear red with scaly or flaky skin.
21272	Among the symptoms of extradural hematoma are frequent migraine, sudden cerebral pains.
21273	Among the symptoms present in persons with the disorder are dysphagia, loss of consciousness, and double vision. The person may experience sudden immobility of the body, save for eye movement.
21274	The symptoms for bladder extrophy includes exposure of the posterior bladder walls, separated pubic rami, wide set ischial bones, ureteral reflux, opening in abdominal wall and dilated ureters.
21275	The symptoms of eye cancers include melanomas during the early stages of development. This will soon be followed by blurred vision, double vision and eventual blindness. Freckles also develop in the eye, but they are mostly benign.
21276	Eye floaters may appear like transparent strings of material, or floating dark specs within the field of vision. They appear to dart away when the affected person tries to look at them. This is because the floaters move with the eyes. Floaters eventually settle down to the bottom of the vitreous cavity out of the line of vision. They may interfere with the vision if the are numerous.
21277	You may experience no symptoms at all for melanoma of the eye. On the other hand, eye melanomas may cause light flashes, blurring or a dark spot in your vision. Affected individuals should watch out for a change in the color of the iris, a growing dark spot on the iris, a sensation of flashing lights, a poor or blurry vision in one eye, loss of side vision in the affected eye, floaters, and a red and painful eye.
21278	While some cases of eye melanoma cancer are asymptomatic in most cases, most patients typically experience a certain blurring or dark spot in their vision, as well as a sensation of sudden light flashes. A change in the color of the iris, particularly an expanding dark spot, is indicative of this disease. Other signs of eye melanoma include: loss of peripheral vision, the appearance of squiggles or floaters in one's field of vision, blurry vision in one eye, plus pain and reddening of the affected eye.
21280	The symptoms of eyelid cysts include swelling, tenderness of the eyelid, increased lachrymal function and sensitivity to light exposure.
21281	Among the signs and symptoms of blepharitis are watery or red eyes, a gritty, burning sensation in the eye, itchy eyelids, red, swollen eyelids, flaking of the skin around the eyes, crusted eyelashes upon awakening, sensitivity to light, frothy tears, eyelashes that grow abnormally, and loss of eyelashes. Scales clinging to the eyelashes can also cause the eyelashes to stick together at night. The affected individual may have to pry their eyes when waking up.
21282	Symptoms of Fabry disease usually manifests during early childhood or during adolescence stage which typically include burning sensations felt in the hands that usually worsens during hot weather and indulging strenuous activities. Other symptoms also include reddish-purple blemishes on the skin, cloudy cornea, increase risk of heart attacks because of enlarged heart as well as kidneys along with fever and gastrointestinal disorders. In severe cases, kidney complications and renal failure may occur.
21283	The signs of the disease include back pain on one side of the spine. This pain grows worse when bending towards the affected side, as well as backward bending. Pain in the hamstring, buttocks and groin are also felt.
21284	Facial palsy symptoms usually start suddenly and may range from mild to severe. Symptoms may include change in the facial expression, difficulty with eating and breathing, drooling, droopy eyelid or corner of mouth, dry eye or mouth, face feels stiff of pulled to one side, facial paralysis on one side of the face, headache, loss of sense of taste, pain behind or in front of the ear, sensitivity to sound and twitching in face.
21285	Symptoms for facial paralysis include sudden weakness of the face that may be accompanied with fever, hearing loss, headache, numbness of the legs and arms. Patient may also suffer from difficulty in swallowing and unexplained hoarseness.
21286	The illness is characterized by slow growth resulting to the patient's short stature, presence of benign growths around the mouth and nostrils, unusual facial features and hardened skin on the palms and soles.
21287	Common indicators for facioscapulohumeral muscular dystrophy include depressed and often angry expression, hearing loss, abnormal heart rhythm, shoulder weakness, loss of abdominal strength, unequal weakening of the triceps, deltoids, biceps, as well as foot drop.
21288	People affected with Munchausen syndrome deliberately produces or exaggerate symptoms in several ways. Hurting themselves, altering diagnostic tests, and lying about fake symptoms are among the things affected people do.
21289	Among the known symptoms associated with factor II deficiency include nosebleeds, abnormal bledding during and after delivery, abnormal menstrual bleeding, bruising, bleeding after trauma and surgery and umbilical cord bleeding among neonates.
21290	Symptoms of the disease include nosebleeds, gum bleeding, excessive bruising, skin bleeding, excessive or prolonged blood loss with trauma or injury, extreme menstrual bleeding, and umbilical stump bleeding.
21291	The disorder includes three common symptoms: blood clots, thrombosis, and deep vein thrombosis.
21292	The disorder is often asymptomatic, which means that no symptoms can be seen, but an individual may have the disorder. Other indications of Factor VII deficiency includes nosebleed, easy bruising, brain hemorrhage, joint bleeding, extreme bleeding after tooth extraction, brain hemarthroses, hemorrhage after an injury, and extreme menstrual bleeding.
21293	Symptoms for Factor VIII deficiency vary in severity and type. Those with mild hemophilia typically have bleeding problems only after there's a serious trauma, surgery, or injury. Individuals with moderate hemophilia have the tendency to have episodic bleeding after injuries; they may also have occasional bleeding without apparent cause. Severe hemophilia has bleeding after an injury, as well as frequent continual bleeding attacks, particularly the muscles and joints.
21294	Some of the common symptoms of the disorder include nosebleeds, muscle bleeding, bleeding of the mucous membrane, prolonged bleeding, thromboembolism, easy bruising, spontaneous bleeding of the tissue, and blood loss into joints. There are cases of complications, where sudden blood loss or hemorrhage can occur. The joints can get malformed in severe types due to many bleeds.
21295	There are two common symptoms of the deficiency: bleeding after surgery and slightly lengthened clotting time. Some other bleeding symptoms include bruising, bloody stool, blood present in urine, nosebleeds, bleeding gums, gastrointestinal bleeding, rectal bleeding, and other types. The severity of bleeding can vary from small injury hemorrhage, mild local bleeding, to massive hemorrhage.
21296	Manifestations of the deficiency include joint bleeding, brain bleeding, spontaneous abortions, menorrhagia, male infertility, too much bleeding around the umbilical cord, excessive bleeding after surgery or trauma, bleeding in soft tissue, poor healing of wound, and other bleeding problems.
21297	Symptoms associated with the disease include dementia or progressive decline of one's cognitive abilities, as well as the loss of obtained motor skills. As this condition develops, paralysis that's linked to increased stiffness of the muscle can occur. Other abnormalities can include chorea or athetosis, and nerve fiber gradual deterioration.
21298	Those affected with Vasovagal syncope typically have recurrent episodes especially when exposed to a specific trigger. The primary episode often happens when the person is a teenager, and then recurs in clusters throughout his or her life. The person frequently experiences a prodome of symptoms such as lightheadedness, nausea, sweating, ringing in the ears, and visual disturbances before losing consciousness. The symptoms usually last for a few seconds before passing out.
21299	Among the symptoms of fallen arches are absence of longitudal arch of foot when standing, foot pain, and heel tilts away from the midline of the body more than usual.
21300	Symptoms for Fallen bladder includes difficulty urinating, unwanted urine leakage when laughing, coughing or sneezing.
21301	Symptoms of this condition differ, depending on severity of blood flow obstruction on the heart's right ventricle. Common symptoms include rapid breathing and breath shortness, bluish skin color, fainting, clubbing toes and fingers, poor gain of weight, easily gets tired during play, and irritability.
21302	The condition may be symptomatic, particularly if an affected child is being observed at an early age due to positive history of family. Symptoms in patients may include tummy pain, rectal bleeding, bony growths, and symptoms associated with cancer.
21303	Symptoms of familial amyloid polyneuropathy includes muscle weakness, pain, autonomic dysfunction, and paresthesia which typocall manifest when the patient is around 20-40 years old. Familial amyloid polyneuropathy at the terminal stage affects the heart and the kidneys.
21304	Among the symptoms of familials emphysema are incessant coughing with blood, sore throat, difficulty in breathing as well as other ailments commonly found in patients with acquired emphysema.
21305	Although the cause of Familial Mediterranean fever remains unknown, this condition usually happens among those with Mediterranean ancestry. However, people of other ethnicities are not guaranteed to be safe from getting the disease.
21306	Signs and symptoms of the disease usually occur among people younger than 20 years old. Collectively called attacks, the signs and symptoms last for 2-3 days with the first 12 hours as peaks. Among the typical attacks are sudden fever, abdominal pain, chest pain, achy, swollen joints, constipation followed by diarrhea, and a rash on the legs particularly the area below the knees. There are also less common signs symptoms including muscle aches, inflammation of the female reproductive organs, swollen, tender scrotum, and inflammation of the blood vessels.
21307	Typically familial periodic paralysis is usually triggered by such factors as heat, cold, stress, high intake of carbohydrates, excitement, and skipping meals. Findings pointed out to some underlying mechanisms within the ion channels of the cell membranes in the skeletal muscles which are responsible for the leak of charged ions. This occurence causes the depolarization of the cells, thereby restricting movements.
21308	Some patients who are suffering from familial polyposis do not experience any symptoms. Others though go through certain intestinal issues such as constipation, bloody stool, diarrhea, weight loss, or abdominal cramps. There are also patients who may develop desmoid tumors, and abnormalities in the bone or teeth. Further, these patients may observe that their retinas have a "spot".
21310	The list below is the common symptoms for Fanconi syndrome, some of the symptoms may only be evident to the doctor and not to the patient: Vitamin D deficiency Urine contains glucose Urine contains Amino acids Urine contains Citrate Urine contains Phosphate Hypokalemia
21311	The most striking clinical feature of Fanconi syndrome is the patient's failure to thrive. Children with Fanconi syndrome typically have a short stature, are frail, have a low muscle tone, and have signs of florid rickets, such as frontal bossing, rosaries, leg bowing, and widening of the wrists, knees, and ankles. Their reflexes may be heightened because of hypocalcemia. Needle-shaped refractile bodies found in the cornea, detectable by slit-lamp examination, are pathognomonic of cystinosis. They are always found in children older than 2 years but may be seen during the first year of life.
21313	Usually in early infancy the disease starts but it can happen later in life. Within the first weeks of life, children who have the classic type of Farber disease develop neurological shnapps. The symptoms may comprise of the following: swallowing problems and damaged mental ability. Along with this the following organs are affected: kidneys, liver and heart. Several symptoms may also be experienced by patients such as arthritis, vomiting, enlarged lymph nodes, enlarged joints, joint contractures, xanthemas and hoarseness that results to the thickening around the joints as the disease develops. A breathing tube may be needed by patients that experiences breathing difficulty.
21314	Patients with farmer's lung may experience symptoms such as fever, cough,wheezing, chills, malaise, or shortness of breath. These are typically experience between 4 and 6 hours after exposure to the mentioned triggers.
21315	Farsightedness may mean nearby objects appear blurry, there's a need to squint to see clearly, affected person experiences eyestrain including burning eyes, aching in or around the eyes, and general eye discomfort or a headache after prolonged interval of doing close tasks.
21316	Among the signs of fasciculations are motor neuron lesions, muscle pain and dehydration.
21317	There are varied symptoms of Fascioliasis, some of which are, intermittent fever, abdominal pain, hives, cough, chest pain, malaise, shortness of breath, weight loss, nausea, diarrhea, jaundice, vomiting, or anorexia.
21318	The disease's general symptoms include severe reduction of sleeping, acute restlessness, changes in automatic functions, dementia, and motor signs include disarthria, ataxia, and myoclonus. Symptoms can develop in stages and show progressive insomnia, bizarre phobias, panic attacks, hallucinations, intense perspirations, agitation, weight loss, muteness, and sudden death.
21319	Among the symptoms of fatigue from cancer is loss of appetite, sudden weight loss and anemia. Muscle weakness and slower memory functions are also observed.
21320	The condition generates no symptoms alone, so most people learn they have the condition when they go through medical tests for some other reasons. Sometimes, swelling from fatty liver is associated to abuse of alcohol called alcoholic steatohepatitis. If this gets worse, one can experience weight loss, fatigue, confusion, weakness, and abdominal discomfort.
21321	Among the signs and symptoms of favism include neonatal jaundice, adverse hemolytic reactions to certain drugs and foods as well as diabetic keoacidosis. Males are usually the ones triggered by the disease.
21322	Symptoms of the disease includes swallowing difficulty, respiratory difficulty, gag reflex absence, progressive weakness of muscle, facial diplegia, dysphonia, speaking difficulty, facial weakness, drooping upper eyelid, decreased diaphragm motility, reduced reflexes, and premature death. Onset of initial symptom has been accounted to be between one to two years, with a denoting age of symptom onset at eight years.
21324	The list below is the common symptoms for febrile fever, some of the symptoms may only be evident to the doctor and not to the patient: Seizures or fits Loss of awareness Shaking or trembling or Shuddering body Writhing limbs Jerking or sudden movements or twitches Rigidity or inflexibility Short-term seizure - usually 1-2 minutes though it can be from a few seconds up to 15 minutes Rectal temperature more than 102 degrees F Eyes rolling back in head Teeth clenching or gritting Foaming at the mouth Urination during the seizure
21325	Symptoms of fecal impaction include constipation, and hard, solid stool that take a lot of time to be released from th rectum. Fecal impaction may lead to necrosis and ulcers in the rectal area. Rectal pain is also present.
21326	It can be accompanied by other problems with bowel like diarrhea, constipation, gas and bloating and abdominal cramps.
21326	Diarrhea, constipation, gas and bloating, and abdominal cramping are among the symptoms of fecal incontinence.
21327	The symptoms of Feer disease are edemas, hyperhidrosis, peripheral neuropathy, hypertension, and extreme redness and swelling of the skin particularly on the cheeks.
21328	The most notable symptoms include digital abnormalities, microcephaly, and esophageal/duodenal atresia. Other symptoms include small head, ear anomalies, anteverted nostrils, small jaw, short palpebral fissures, low nasal bridge, finger deformities, webbed toes, vertebral clefts and blocks, and abnormal opening in the connection between the esophagus and trachea.
21329	The symptoms of the disease are difficult to determine, since Prion diseases share nearly the same characteristics. Patients with Prion diseases normally lose coordination, followed by dementia, and eventual death.
21330	The symptoms of the illness include paleness, lethargy, and susceptibility to pneumonia and other infections. Skin ulcers are also present.
21331	Among the symptoms of female carrier ALD are ataxia, mild peripheral neuropathy, urinary problems and spastic paraperesis of the lover limbs.
21332	The inability of a couple to get pregnant is the main symptom of female infertility. There may be no outward signs or symptoms but an abnormal menstrual cycle is also a symptom.
21333	The disease features several characteristics, including craniofacial abnormalities, curvature of the spine, a dislocated breastbone, cardiac defects such as pulmonary valvular stenosis, and lymphatic problems.
21334	Generally, affected individuals show normal ovaries, XX karyotype, internal female ductal systems, and external genitalia virilization. Their external genitalia is 'masculinized' to an inconsistent degree, from mild enlargement of the clitoris to normal male phenotype having empty scrotum. Other symptoms include sealed vagina, fusion of labia, and abnormal female external genitalia.
21335	If a woman experiences low or absent sexual desire, cannot maintain an arousal during sexual activity, cannot experience and orgasm, and feels pain during sexual contact, then she is showing symptoms of female sexual dysfunction.
21336	Symptoms of feminisation include development of physical and behavioral female attributes such as breast enlargement.
21337	Severity of signs and symptoms varies and may include heart defects; deformities of joints, limbs and fingers; slow physical growth development before and after birth; visual and hearing problems; mental retardation; and distinctive facial features, including small eyes, an exceptionally thin upper lip, a short, upturned nose and smooth skin surface between nose and upper lip.
21338	Some of symptoms for the disorder can include vaginal adenosis, reproductive tract abnormality, malformed cervix, fallopian tube abnormality, infertility, uterine cavity anomaly, and vaginal septa.
21339	Among the symptoms included under the fetal face syndrome are craniofacial deformities, genital malformations and an infant-like facial appearance, thus the name ?fetal face?. Skeletal problems also arise such as short forearm bones and scoliosis.
21340	Some of the most common symptoms of the syndrome include skull abnormalities, facial feature anomalies, mental deficiency, growth deficiency, metopic ridging, widely spread eyes, and wide anterior fontanel. Less common manifestations of the syndrome include small head, coloboma, brachycephaly, strabismus, and positional foot deformities.
21341	Symptoms connected with fetal methyl mercury syndrome include cerebral palsy, psychomotor retardation, small head, vision loss, hearing loss, short stature, and reduced tone of the muscle.
21342	Fetal thalidomide syndrome involves fetal abnormalities and organ malfunctions that may place the fetus into high risk.
21343	Symptoms include low birth weight, seizures, reduced muscle tone, deafness, feeding difficulty, shortened fingers, widely spaced nipples, and failure to thrive. Warfarin ingestion may also be chronic or acute.
21345	Signs and symptoms of fever depend on what's causing it. Some symptoms include slight dehydration, sweating, shivering, headache, loss of appetite, and muscle pain. Hallucinations, convulsions, confusion and irritability may present if fever is higher enough between 103 - 106OF. Fever can also induce seizures which also called febrile seizures which is a very alarming and often triggered by a fever from a common childhood illness.
21346	Itching, burning, increased sensitivity, or a tingling sensation may be experienced 2 days before lesions start to appear. The skin lesions usually appear around the lips, mouth, and gums. Small blisters or vesicles filled with yellowish fluid would also appear. Mild fever may also be experienced.
21347	The symptoms of the disease include seizures, hypotonia, brain abnormalities, a short stature, chronic constipation, and streaks of light and dark pigments on the skin.
21348	Appearance of lump in the breast that is smooth with defined edges, and usually free moving; usually located in the upper, outer sections of the breast . May also present with persistent or intermittent aching sensation in the breast and nipples may be tender or itchy feeling.
21349	Symptoms include lesions that are characterized as tender, very painful soft and rubbery tissue indurations that are usually precipitated by trauma. These lesions usually develop along the paraspinal muscles of the limb girdles and back. Symptoms may also include restricted mobility and deformations and may sometimes be associated with deafness and alopecia.
21350	Some who have the disease will not be able to notice any symptoms. Depending on the type of fibroma one may have, the symptoms may differ. For dermatofibroma - as an example - it will be seen as small rubbery bumps under one's skin.
21351	Patients with fibromatosis are usually not aware of their medical condition since there is no underlying pain or discomfort. The mass may gradually grow and self-involution may possible occur. For lesions that constantly enlarge and progress, an incision may be required.
21352	Symptoms for Fibromuscular dysplasia include lightheadedness, tinnitus, headache, vertigo and neck pains, which can all be due to arterial dissection. Patients may also report nuerologic deficits, numbness of the face as well as the extremities. Cranial numbness, weakness and coordination difficulties have alsoe been reported.
21353	Symptoms of fibromyalgia can largely vary depending on the stress, weather, physical activity and even the time of day. Among the common symptoms include sleep disturbances and fatigue, widespread pain, irritable bowel syndrome, facial pain and headaches, heightened sensitivity, depression, chest pains, dizziness, anxiety, mood changes and difficulty in concentrating.
21354	Women who suffer from fibromyoma often experience sensation of fullness or pressure in lower abdomen, pelvic cramping, abdominal fullness or gas, increase in urinary frequency, heavy menstrual bleeding, sometimes with the passage of blood clots, and sudden, severe pain due to pedunculated fibroid.
21355	Fibrosarcomas usually involve pain and swelling, and can develop into large mass that can threaten the structural integrity of the bone. Lesions are also key indicators usually occur on the patient's knee, hip and femur regions or in the proximal arm.
21356	For pulmonary fibrosis, one may experience shortness of breath, chest discomfort, a chronic dry cough, loss of appetite and fatigue. For cystic fibrosis, one will experience breathing difficulties, abnormal heart rhythms and respiratory infections.
21357	Fibrous dysplasia normally affects any bone in the patient's body, but most victims don't normally develop signs and symptoms. Among the common affected parts include the ribs, shin and thigh bone, skull, pelvic bones, upper arm bones and humerus. Patients would usually feel bone pain, difficulty in walking and of course, bone deformities.
21358	Typically signs and symptoms of parvovirus can develop like mild, cold like sore throat, slight fever, headache, itching in the early phase of the infection for about 5 to 10 days. A bright distinctive red facial rash usually appears on both cheeks after several days. Rash may extend to the rest of the body and becomes more visible when exposed most time in the sun or high temperatures.
21359	Among the most unusual symptoms of filariasis is the abnormal thickening of the underlying tissues and the skin, the condition which has earn the name elephantiasis. This is mainly caused by the growth of the parasites that are lodged in the lymphatic system. This condition usually affects the patient's lower extremities.
21360	Patients with filovirus (especially those first attacked by the Ebola diseases) demonstrated sudden chills and high fever, accompanied by profuse internal bleeding. Abdominal pain, headaches, nausea, lethargy and vomiting are also present. Blood vessels become extremely weak and the immune system no longer generates white blood cells to fight the virus. In a few days' time, these patients succumb to death. `
21361	Those with finger fracture and the likes experience severe pain, swelling, tenderness, bruising, obvious deformity such as bent wrist or crooked finger, stiffness or inability to move finger or thumb, and numbness or coldness in the finger or thumb.
21363	Fissured tongue usually affects the dorsum and would usually extend to the lateral borders of the tongue. When this is particularly prominent, the grooves may be interconnected, appearing more like several lobules.
21364	Fistulas are asymptomatic, thus physical examination is required to help detect the presence of the disease. Other patients meanwhile complain of extreme pain on the areas where fistulas are suspected to have developed. `
21364	Fistulas are asymptomatic, thus physical examination is required to help detect the presence of the disease. Other patients meanwhile complain of extreme pain on the areas where fistulas are suspected to have developed.
21365	Fitz-Hugh-Curtis syndrome is often an extrapelvic manifestation of PID or pelvic inflammatory disease. Common symptoms include excruciating pain usually felt on the gallbladder area, pain on the right shoulder, occasional nausea, night sweats, fever and general malaise.
21366	Symptoms of Fitzsimmons-Guilbert syndrome include short fingers and toes, foot and hand abnormalities, paraplegia, reduced intelligence, retarded growth, walking difficulty, muscle weakness, webbed fingers, short stature and protruding chest.
21368	The symptoms of flatfeet include the absence of longitudal arch of foot when standing, foot pain, and heel tilts away from the midline of the body more than usual.
21369	Excess gas for most people have voluntary or involuntary passing of gas, abdominal bloating or distention, a sharp, jabbing pains or cramps occur in any part of your abdomen and can change location and intensity of pain quickly. Sometimes pain in abdomen can also be mistaken for some diseases like heart if pain occurs in the upper left side or can be mistaken for gallstone or appendicitis if pain is felt on the right side.
21370	There are currently five identified key indicators of Flavimonas oryzihabitans which include bacteremia, abcesses, sepsis, bacterial infection and fever.
21371	Flea bites are characterized by swollen red spots on the skin. These spots are itchy, and may cause rashes and sores due to incessant scratching.
21372	Symptoms that are associated with necrotizing fasciitis include swelling, redness, and pain in the affected area. Other symptoms also include nausea and vomiting, and fever. Symptoms usually develop after 24 hours after having an infected wound, during such time the bacteria rapidly invades the body tissues beneath the skin. Severe symptoms would also include death of the affected area or what is known as gangrene.
21374	The prevalence of some symptoms of a floppy valve syndrome or MVP does not have a significant difference from the general population. Some MVP patients may experience heart palpitations, atrial fibrillation or syncope. These symptoms are caused by the mitral regurgitation and are not directly caused by the prolapsing mitral valve. The mitral regurgitation is often a result of the prolapse. Floppy valve syndrome patients also tend to have low body mass index (BMI) for still unknown reasons. They are also usually leaner than those without the disease. Individuals with the Marfan syndrome are also known to have frequent occurrences of MVP.
21375	The common symptoms associated with flourosis include fine white lines, spots and streaks. In severe cases, the teeth affected with flourosis usually become brown and pitted, or with grayish and black spots with misshapen enamels.
21376	Common signs and symptoms of flu include fever over 101 F among adults and 103-105 among children, chills and sweats, headache, dry cough, muscular aches and pains, fatigues and weakness, nasal congestion, loss or appetite and diarrhea and vomiting among kids.
21377	Among the symptoms that comes with Flynn-Aird syndrome include nearsightedness, cataracts, blindness, progressive loss of vision, skin atrophy, stiff joints, chronic skin ulcers, early onset of dementia, epilepsy, inability to control the body's voluntary movements, and peripheral neuritis.
21378	The condition is manifested in a certain part of the body through contractions caused by "misfired" neurons. Writers, musicians, surgeons, and those who make much use of their fine motor skills are affected by this condition. However, typically, focal dystonia only occurs in certain activities or tasks.
21380	Symptoms of Foix-Alajouanine syndrome may be a presence of one or more symptoms related with spinal cord involvements. Symptoms may be paralysis of legs and arms, leg spasms, lower back pains. Loss of sensation may also be observed, muscle wasting, weakness, and numbness. Other symptoms are fecal incontinence, and/or urinary incontinence.
21381	Symptoms of this condition are drooling, speech impediments, jaw jerks, chewing problems, other facial weaknesses, and some seizures. If a person suffers while in childhood, developmental delays may be present.
21382	People with folate deficiency often experience weight loss, diarrhea and loss of appetite. Other ailments such as weakness, headaches, palpitations, and behavioral disorders are also likely to take place. Pregnant women meanwhile can produce underweight or premature infants.
21383	The common symptoms of folate deficiency anemia are tiredness, headache, sore mouth and tongue, diarrhea, numbness or tingling in your hands and feet, muscle weakness, mental confusion or forgetfulness, and pallor.
21384	Initial signs are painless swellings in the neck, armpit, or groin. This is due to the enlargement of the lymph nodes. Other symptoms people may experience are profuse night sweating, high temperatures, and sudden weight loss. These symptoms are classified as B symptoms.
21385	Symptoms vary on the type of infection. Superficial folliculitis or the upper part of the hair follicle can present clusters of small red bumps around the hair follicles, itchiness or tenderness and pus filled blisters that break open and crust over. While the deep folliculitis affects the entire follicle by starting in the deeper surrounding skin which can present symptoms like swollen bump or mass, pain, scars on the cleared infection.
21386	Persons with PKU are often observed with poor learning abilities such as low IQ. They also have speech difficulties, abnormal physical attributes, and characteristic body color. As PKU affects the brain system, patients eventually succumb to mental retardation.
21387	The reaction to food allergy can vary from one person to another, ranging from mild to fatal. The reactions and symptoms can be evident after a few minutes after intake of food. This includes the tingling sensation in the mouth, eczema and hives, abdominal pain, nausea and diarrhea, vomiting, nasal congestion and difficulty in breathing, fainting and dizziness and swollen parts of the body.
21389	Among the symptoms of food poisoning are vomiting, headache, stomach pain and diarrhea. Severe cases meanwhile have to be rushed to the hospital for immediate treatment.
21390	Foodborne illnesses usually show signs such as stomach pain, diarrhea, fever and chills.
21391	Most of the time, the only symptom of foot drop is difficulty in lifting the front part of the foot. It is sometimes accompanied by pain, weakness, or numbness of the foot. It also typically affects only one foot but depending on the underlying cause, it is also possible that both feet will be affected.
21392	Among the symptoms of foot ulcers include lesions or sores in the foot or leg that came from open wounds. These cuts are the unable to heal on their own, and eventually lead to loss of sensation in the affected area.
21393	Those who suffer from Forbes Disease show different symptoms. Those symptoms for GSD IIIa include muscle and liver involvement. Those symptoms for GSD IIIb have liver involvement but no muscle involvement. Symptoms of the disease generally present during infancy and usually include hypoglycemia. Others are hepatomegaly and muscular disease, cardiomyopathy, and hypotonia. A number of adult patients develop cirrhosis. Sufferers are observed to have excessive craving for carbohydrates and sweets.
21394	The signs and symptoms of Fordyce spots include multiple (usually less than 10) 1-2 mm, painless, yellowish papules that are seen. Its (Fordyce spots) common location is at the border of the lips, especially near the corners of the mouth. Other locations include inside the mouth, including the tonsils and the back portions of the inner cheeks.
21395	The disease often does not cause signs and symptoms but stiffness and pain along the affected ligaments may be experienced. Difficulty in swallowing or a hoarse voice may also be experienced if DISH occurs in the neck. DISH is also most common among adults and men.
21396	Symptoms of Formaldehyde Poisoning may be in the form of eye, nose, and skin irritations as well as respiratory tract irritations. Inhalation may result in bronchospasm and worse, pulmonary edema. Metabolic acidosis may be present. Nausea and vomiting, diarrhea and abdominal pain, gastritis and ulceration, also perforation, can occur.
21397	Patients who suffer from Fountain syndrome exhibit a degree of mental retardation (mild to severe). Lips and cheeks experience abnormal swelling. This is because body fluids excessively accumulate under one's skin (subcutaneous) and on the face (edema). Deafness may also be observed at birth (called congenital deafness) as well as skeletal abnormalities like calvaria (thickening of skull cap) and spine curvature (hyperkyphosis).
21398	People who suffer from Fox-Fordyce disease develop bothersome bumps which lead to persisting itchiness. The bumps may form around the underarms (around the hair follicles), in the pubic regions, and even around the nipples. These happen due to the inflammation of one's aprocrine sweat glands. Itchiness may prevent nightly sleep or daily naps. Skin dryness and thickening may also be experienced. Skin thickens because of grave scratching. Symptoms may persist for years and may be halted (only) during pregnancy in women. Some experience quite a permanent cure after menopause.
21399	The condition, just like any other broken bone case, causes pain, swelling, and deformity but these are minimal or absent with greenstick fracture. It may also be difficult to identify greenstick fracture from soft-tissue injury such as a sprain or a bad bruise.
21400	Fifty percent of all growth plate injuries occur in the forearm bone, at the wrist. Also susceptible to these types of injuries are the lower leg bones, the ankle, foot, or hip.
21401	People with stress fractures may experience paint hat increases with activity and decreases with rest, pain that occurs earlier in each successive workout, pain that increases over time, pain that persists even at rest, swelling, and a spot that feels tender or painful to the touch.
21402	Symptoms of a fractured femur are extreme pain in the affected thigh, immobility and numbness.
21403	Some symptoms are mild to severe mental handicap or retardations. Physical signs will be larger ears, large jaw (called prognathism), large forehead, and also large testes (called macroorchidism). Affected people also show speech impairments and autistic symptoms. Faces are typically long and quite narrow.
21404	The main symptom of the disease is red bumps that occur in the different parts of the skin. They soon cause itchiness and swelling, and after which they succumb to fever and chills.
21405	Most patients exhibit reduced eye sizes or downward slanting space between eyelids. Other symptoms are small head, Absence of mandibular condyles, generalized tonic-clonic seizures, spina bifida, ,scaphocephaly, Glaucoma, scoliosis, mental retardation , undescended testes, funnel chest, hyperactivity, choreoathetoris, and hypogenitalism.
21406	Symptoms associated with this condition may be any one or more of the following: partial webbing of fingers or toes, eyelid fusion. Other symptoms are kidney and genital abnormalities or malformations.
21407	Common symptoms of FRAXA syndrome vary from mild to severe mental impairment or learning disabilities, attention deficit disorder or hyperactivity, anxiety and mood swings, autistic behavioral patterns, physical features of long face, large ears, and flat feet, and hyperextensible feature of the joints, most especially the fingers. Seizures are experienced by roughly 25% of those who suffer from this disorder.
21408	Symptoms would include scoliosis, talipes equinovarus, muscle eye abnormalities, camptodactyly, microstomia, attenuated movement of the muscles of facial expression , high-arched palate, and anomalies in the musculoskeletal system.
21409	Symptoms of this syndrome may be redness, warmth, and/or sweating on the cheek area which is adjacent to the ear. Symptoms usually appear whenever affected persons eat, see, think of or talk of certain kinds of food resulting to strong salivation.
21410	Damages to the nervous system may cause speech problems, gait disturbance like unsteadiness and clumsiness, and heart problems. Difficulty to walk (gait ataxia) is the first one to usually appear. Other early signs are toe flexion, clubfoot, hammer toes, and foot inversion. Patients may suffer from muscle weakness and wasting, and various deformities may form. Patients may tire more often. Rapid and uncontrolled eye movements are also common. Most people develop scoliosis (curvature of the spine).
21411	Among the symptoms of frigidity are indifference towards initiated sexual encounter. Frigidity is more common in women than in men.
21412	The symptoms manifested in Froelich's syndrome include feminine obesity, growth retardation, retarded sexual development, hypoplasia or atrophy of the gonads, altered secondary sex characteristics, headaches, mental retardation, vision problems, polyuria, and polydipsia. Children who are already obese may appear like they have the disorder but these do not have any endocrine abnormalities. These obese children often mature quite normally after a delayed puberty.
21413	Commonly noted characteristics of Frontal lobe seizures are frequent seizures, clustering of seizures, falling that are caused by seizures that begin in one area of the brain and rapidly spreading into the other parts, minimal or no confusion after the seizure, and variable in causing consciousness. Depending on the origin of the seizures, symptoms such as head and eye deviation to one side, complete or partial unresponsiveness, explosive vocalizations, abnormal body posturing, and behavioral automatisms may be experienced.
21414	Commonly noted characteristics of Frontal lobe seizures are frequent seizures, clustering of seizures, falling that are caused by seizures that begin in one area of the brain and rapidly spreading into the other parts, minimal or no confusion after the seizure, and variable in causing consciousness. Depending on the origin of the seizures, symptoms such as head and eye deviation to one side, complete or partial unresponsiveness, explosive vocalizations, abnormal body posturing, and behavioral automatisms may be experienced.
21415	Symptoms relate to the function of the frontal and temporal lobe. As these lobes degenerate, the individual slowly regresses relating to performance of such functions. Symptoms can be categorized into two: behavioral and executive functioning symptoms. Behavioral symptoms include apathy as well as asponteniety. Patients are observed to be socially withdrawn and unable to care for themselves. Disinhibition can also be observed from the patients wherein the patients make inappropriate comments or does inappropriate acts. Executive functioning symptoms include the inability to perform skills requiring sequencing or complex planning. Primitive reflexes also begin to appear in patients with FTD. These reflexes are also known as frontal release signs and can be among the following: palmomental reflex, palmar grasp, and rooting reflex.
21415	Symptoms include euphoria, apathy, lack of judgment, decline in personal hygiene, lack of awareness and behavioral changes as well as increasingly inappropriate actions. It can also come with movement problems such as rigidity, poor coordination, tremor, muscle spasm, and impaired balance.
21416	Some symptoms include: early decline in social interpersonal conduct ; early impairment in regulation of personal conduct ; early emotional blunting; and early loss of insight. Other common features are neglect of personal hygiene, disinhibition, mental rigidity, perseverative behaviors, voracious appetite and hyperorality.
21417	Frostbite manifests as a distinctive discoloration of the skin, accompanied by numbness, burning sensations, and in most cases, intense pain. Frostbitten skin is cold to the touch and resembles burnt flesh - usually black, loose, and flayed in appearance. If untreated, frostbite on the skin may turn even darker, develop blisters within a matter of hours, and eventually destroy the skin completely. If the damage to affected areas is particularly severe, gangrene may occur. In such cases, amputation is almost invariable necessary.
21418	With a frozen shoulder, one sign is that the joint becomes so tight and stiff that it is almost impossible to carry out simple movements, such as raising the arm. People complain that the stiffness and pain worsen during nighttime. Pain due to frozen shoulder is typically dull or aching. It can be exacerbated with attempted motion.
21419	Symptoms for the disorder appear when fructose is ingested by the individual. Symptoms include hypoglycemia, vomiting, hemorrhage, jaundice, hyperuricemia, hepatomegaly, and later on kidney failure will soon develop.
21420	Symptoms of Fructosuria include the presence of fructose in the urine. Symptoms of hypoglycemia are also manifested by the individual.
21421	A person in the midst of a dissociative fugue episode may seem to have no psychiatric symptoms at all or to be only slightly confused.
21422	Over the next few days to weeks, the condition worsens to coma, with development of ascites, cerebral edema, and decorticate and decerebrate posturing. Gastrointestinal (GI) bleeding may occur due to the severe coagulopathy. Liver size may be normal, small, or large, and the liver may shrink with deterioration of the overall condition of the patient.
21424	The infected nails may be thickened; brittle, crumbly or ragged; distorted in shape; dull, with no luster or shine; dark color, caused by debris building up under the nail. Infected nails may also separate from the nail bed, a condition known as onycholysis. The patient may even feel pain in the toes or fingertips and detect a slightly foul odor.
21425	Among the signs of fungal meningitis are blurred vision, tiredness, irritability, stiff neck and vomiting. When left untreated, the disease can be very fatal.
21426	The main feature of this condition is the sternum's hollow, sunken appearance. The heart is also found to be dislocated and mitral valve relapse may occur.
21427	The symptoms for the disease are not evident, while some patients usually develop symptoms of anemia after the RBCs are destroyed.
21428	The symptoms of the disorder include a milky discharge from the nipple and a subareolar mass. If secondary infection has occurred, patients may present with an abscess formation.
21429	One symptom found in affected children is the formation of cataracts. This can present as a failure to visually track moving objects, and a failure to develop a social smile during the normal developmental changes of the baby.
21430	Symptoms include spontaneous discharge of milk from an individual who is not known to be pregnant neither nursing a child. Other symptoms to look out for include cessation of regular menstrual periods and infertility.
21431	The symptoms in classic galactosemia or Galactose-1-phosphate uridyltransferase deficiency are more severe compared to the other types of galactosemia. Classic galactosemia has been known to be fatal especially in newborns when the disease is not detected early and lactose is not removed from the newborn's diet. Serious complications of the disease include learning and speech difficulties, neurologic impairment and even ovarian failure in girls.
21432	Short term effects cannot fully be felt. Long term effects bring about permanent damage to the body such as speech deficits, dysmetria, ataxia, diminished bone density, cataract, and premature ovarian failure. Severe build up of galactose in the blood can result to hepatomegaly, cirrhosis, brain damage, and renal failure.
21433	Gall bladder disease typically presents with severe pain in the upper right side or upper middle right side of the abdomen, usually occurring right after meals and worsening during a deep intake of breath or after ingesting a high-fat meal. The pain is often recurrent and radiates to the back or just slightly below the right shoulder blade. Along with severe abdominal pain, gall bladder disease also manifests with a sensation of abdominal fullness, fever, vomiting and nausea, heartburn, chills, and pain under the breastbone.
21434	In its initial stage, gallbladder cancer is usually asymptomatic. Most affected individuals rarely feel any symptoms, and discovery of the cancer is often incidental to gallstone treatment. Most cases are usually quite advanced before a diagnosis is made. When gallbladder cancer becomes symptomatic, its symptoms often mimic those of more common gallbladder disorders. Common symptoms of this cancer are: abdominal pain, vomiting and nausea, jaundice, and unexplained weight loss.
21435	Physical features of children diagnosed with Galloway Mowat syndrome include microcephaly, craniofacial abnormalities, diffuse mesangial sclerosis or focal glomerulosclerosis resulting in Nephrotic syndrome, and Hiatal or diaphragmatic hernia. Other physical symptoms to take note of include various brain malformations, seizures, generalize hypotonia, hyperreflexia. Infants diagnosed with Galloway Mowat syndrome may exhibit developmental delays and disabilities. Mental retardation may even be possible with the disease.
21436	While rare, the HYPP has also been observed in humans. It manifests as episodes characterized by extreme muscle weakness. The onset of these symptoms usually begin around the age of 20 years old, and, depending on the severity of the disease, may increase or may stabilize until the person suffering from Gamstorp episodic adynamy is well within his or her 40's or 50's. Some known triggers of Gamstorp episodic adynamy are resting after exercise, consumption of food rich in potassium, stress and fatigue, cigarette smoke, and fasting. While muscle strength can recover in between Gamstorp episodic adynamy attacks, many people suffering from this disease may experience the said muscle weakness increasingly over time. Stiffness and spasms in the muscles may also happen. Another symptom is the increased levels of potassium in the blood, particularly during muscle weakness attacks. The consumption of potassium by individuals suffering from the disease may trigger attacks of muscle weakness regardless of increased potassium levels in the blood.
21438	The cyst contains clear fluid similar to synovial fluid. They often found around the wrist joint, especially at the scapho-lunate joint, which accounts for 80% of all ganglion cysts.
21439	The early signs of dry gangrene are a dull ache and sensation of coldness in the affected area along with pallor of the flesh. If caught early, the process can sometimes be reverse by vascular surgery. However, if necrosis sets in, the affected tissue must remove just as with wet gangrene.
21440	Symptoms of the disorder include confusion, loss of personal identity, echolalia and somatic conversion. Other people meanwhile consider ganser syndrome as malingering.
21443	Belching Flatulence Bloating of the abdomen Pain and discomfort in the abdomen
21444	Some symptoms include the voluntary or involuntary passing of gas, either as belching or as flatus. There can also be sharp, jabbing pains or cramps in the abdomen. These pains may occur anywhere in the abdomen and can change locations quickly. The patient may also have a "knotted" feeling in the stomach. Another symptom is abdominal bloating (distension).
21445	Microscopic internal bleeding is an early sign of gastric cancer; however, this can only be detected via lab tests. At the onset, an affected patient may experience exhaustion as a result of the internal bleeding, as well as suffer from heartburns and abdominal pain. In its more advanced form, the disease may manifest with the following symptoms: discomfort in the abdomen aggravated by eating; excretion of black stools; blood in the vomit; vomiting after meals; weakness; fatigue; unexplained weight loss; as well as a sensation of extreme fullness after meals even if eating was minimal.
21446	Early dumping is coupled with symptoms like bloating, cramping, diarrhea, dizziness, fatigue, and vomiting. Late dumpingis usually accompanied by dizziness, sweating, and a general feeling of weakness. Those who suffer from this disorder are also likely to suffer from hypoglycaemia (low blood sugar). This results from the fact that rapid gastric emptying triggers the release of excessive volumes of insulin from the pancreas into the bloodstream.
21447	Symptoms include nausea, vomiting, abdominal pain and cramps, diarrhea, dizziness and lightheadedness, bloating and belching, fatigue, and heart palpitations and rapid heart rate. Some people undergo both early and late signs and symptoms. Conditions such as dizziness and heart palpitations can arise either early or late - or both. No matter when problems develop, however, they may be worse in the aftermath of a high-sugar meal, specifically one that's rich in sucrose (table sugar) or fructose (fruit sugar).
21448	Among the symptoms of gastric erosion are frequent abdominal pain, stomach bleeding, weight loss, anemia, fatigue and black colored stool.
21449	Gastric lymphoma usually manifests among the elderly, with symptoms including pain within the upper abdominal area (or the epigastrium), fatigue, weight loss, and early satiety.
21450	Here are the symptoms that can be a result of gastritis or can relate to the underlying cause: Upper abdominal pain or discomfort, gastric hemorrhage, hypochlorhydria, appetite loss, belching, nausea, vomiting, fever and Lethargy.
21451	It often involves stomach pain or spasms sometimes to the point of being crippling, diarrhea and/or vomiting, with no inflammatory infection of the upper small bowel, or inflammatory infections of the colon. The main factors include poor feeding in infants. Diarrhea is common, and followed by vomiting. A child with gastroenteritis may be lethargic, lack of sleep, or run a low fever and signs of dehydration, which include dry mucous membranes, tachycardia, reduced skin turgid, skin color discoloration, sunken fontanel's and sunken eyeballs and darkened eye circles, poor perfusion and ultimately shock. Symptoms may happen for up to 6 days on average. Given appropriate treatment, bowel movements will be back to normal within a week after that.
21452	Eosinophilic gastroenteritis manifests itself with symptoms that are non-specific to the GI tract, including abdominal pain, diarrhoea, nausea, and vomiting. Due to the rarity of the disease, most of these symptoms are experienced for many years before diagnosis.
21453	Among the symptoms one may incur from gastrointestinal anthrax are extreme abdominal pain, vomiting and nausea.
21455	Among the symptoms of gastrointestinal bleeding are minor bleeds, which can develop into hypovolemia, shock and eventual death when left untreated.
21456	Patients having trouble swallowing, gastrointestinal hemorrhage or metastases (usually in liver). Intestinal obstruction is rare, due to the tumor's outward pattern of growth. Usually there is a history of vague abdominal pain or discomfort and the tumor has become rather large by time the diagnosis is made.
21457	Symptoms of gastronintestinal stromal tumors are difficult to notice, since they share the same as those of other disease that affect the gastrointestinal tract. Among these symptoms are abdominal pain and discomfort.
21458	Most common symptoms are nausea, vomiting and feeling full only after eating a few bites. Gastroparesis often cause bloating of the abdomen, heartburn, levels of blood sugar changes, lack of appetite and malnutrition.
21458	The most common symptoms are nausea, vomiting, and a feeling of fullness after eating just a few bites. This condition also often causes abdominal bloating, heartburn, changes in blood sugar levels, lack of appetite, and weight loss and malnutrition.
21459	A symptom of Gaucher disease is sallow brown skin pigmentation. There is the absence of cardiac, pulmonary, and renal signs, and the swelling of spleen and liver. Skeletal disorders also are a symptom, causing great pain from bone lesions. 75% of people suffering from Gaucher disease develop osteoporosis. Hypersplenism or the destruction of red and white blood is also common. An uncommon symptom is cirrhosis of the liver.
21460	People who suffer from Gaucher disease have yellow-brown skin pigmentation. There is an enlargement of the spleen, as well as an absence of cardiac, pulmonary, and renal signs. Hypersplenism, where red and white blood cells are destroyed, is also common. It is also common for 75% of people who suffer from Gaucher disease to also have osteoporosis. An uncommon symptom is cirrhosis of the liver.
21461	People who suffer from Gaucher disease usually have swollen lymph nodes and enlarged spleens. They display brownish skin pigmentation and signs of anemia. Patients are likely to suffer from osteoporosis, with many in severe pain from bone lesions. An unlikely but nonetheless existing symptom is cirrhosis of the liver. Moreover, people who suffer from Gaucher disease are very much vulnerable to contracting other infections.
21462	People who suffer from Gaucher disease will likely first show signs of brown skin pigmentation, and also signs of having developed anemia. The anemia is a result of another symptom, hypersplenism, which is the destruction of both red and white blood cells. There may also be swelling of the lymph nodes and, internally, the spleen. People with Gaucher disease are likely to develop osteoporosis, and may experience pain from bone lesions. Cardiac, pulmonary, and renal signs may also be absent.
21464	Excessive Daytime Sleepiness (EDS), the first symptom, means that a narcoleptic may feel drowsy and fall asleep at any time during the day. Other usual symptoms of narcolepsy include cataplexy, which can be felt as loss of muscle control or complete collapse. Other classic symptoms are sleeping paralysis, or temporary incapacity to move when waking, and hypnogogic hallucinations or frightening pseudo-dreams that happen before dozing off or awakening. The fifth classic symptoms is automatic behavior, which is when a person performs physical tasks but wakes up unable to recall the performance of such tasks.
21465	Most patients with gender identity disorder live normal lives, apart from a series of recurring episodes wherein they behave like they are of the opposite sex. Thus they change gender roles, engage in homosexual activities, or experience confusion or even depression about their gender identity.
21466	GAD symptoms may include: restlessness; feeling of being keyed up or on edge; feeling a lump in the throat; difficulty concetrating; fatigue; irritability; impatience; being easily distracted; and muscle tension.
21468	When present, genital herpes symptoms may include: Small, red bumps, blisters (vesicles) or open sores (ulcers) in the genital, anal and nearby areas; and pain or itching around the genital area, buttocks or inner thighs. The first symptom of genital herpes usually is pain or itching, beginning within a few weeks after exposure to an infected sexual partner. After several days, small, red bumps may occur. They then rupture, developing to ulcers that ooze or bleed. Eventually, scabs form and these ulcers heal.
21469	The symptoms of genital system cancers are malignant growths in the affected areas. They thus develop into tumors and soon disrupt the functions of the genital area.
21470	It spread through direct skin-to-skin contact during oral, genital, or anal sex with an infected partner. Genital warts are usually easily recognized sign of genital HPV infection.
21472	The common symptoms for genuphobia are the following: always gasping for breath, lightheadedness, extreme sweating, vomiting, dry mouth, feeling sick, trembling, heart palpitations, lack of the ability to speak, inability to think clearly, a fear of losing control, and the anxiety attack.
21473	The geographic tongue can give discomfort to the tongue. It can also cause high sensitivity to hot and spicy foods. For other people, it will not show any other symptoms and signs.
21474	The primary symptom of GERD is heartburn, usually felt as a "burning" feeling of pain and discomfort near the heart. Chronic chest pain, difficulty in swallowing, cough, ear pain, nausea, and even sinusitis, may manifest, although, a patient will likely experience only one of these symptoms.
21475	The disease usually features abnormal widening and narrowing of the blood vessels as well as vasomotor malfunctions.
21476	After an incubation period of 14-21 days, the primary symptom of rubella virus infection is the occurrence of a rash (exanthem) on the face which spreads to the trunk and limbs and usually fades after three days. Other symptoms include low grade fever, swollen glands (post cervical lymphadenopathy), joint pains, conjunctivitis, and headache. The swollen glands or lymph nodes can persist for up to a week and the fever rarely rises above 38 degrees celsius. The rash typically disappears after a few days with no staining or peeling of the skin. Forchheimer's sign occurs in 20% of cases, and is marked by small, red papules on the area of the soft palate.
21477	Symptoms are only mild which includes mild fever of 102 F or lower, headache, runny or stuffy nose, eyes are red and swelling, lymph nodes are enlarged and tender, rash that is fine and pink which starts in the face and joints are aching especially in women.
21478	Amongst the major symptoms are mental deficiency which affects their mental judgments, their thoughts and intelligence, speech disorder which give them the inability to speak, growth deficiency, brachycephaly and midfacial hypoplasia, which they have short noses, upturned nose, low nasal bridge, cupped ears, cleft lip and serious heart problems. Other symptoms are facial hamengiomata, webbed neck, scoliosis, transposition of the great vessels and hypoplastic heart.
21480	For adults, this may appear after an episode of stroke or any form that damages the parietal lobe. Aside from the mentioned symptoms, adults may also experience aphasia, which is the difficulty in expressing itself when talking, when understanding its speech and their reading and writing. A few symptoms have been reported for children but sometimes they were called developmental Gerstmann's syndrome. But symptoms can be identified when the children began schooling. Children with disorders show poor handwriting and spelling, difficulty in math and the difficulty to differentiate between right and left. Children with brain damage can be affected with this disorder as well.
21481	The signs of the disease begin with slow development of speaking problems, ataxia and progressive dementia.
21482	Gestational diabetes mellitus only shows a few symptoms. The signs of the disease can be found on the blood screening which is done during pregnancy to detect high levels of glucose.
21483	Symptoms start in the naval area. A blister rash appears and will spread in the whole body. A hot and painful welt's that is called plague usually accompanies this blister rash. But there are cases that only plagues will appear. This also creates histamine that causes extreme itchiness in the body.
21484	The symptoms of gestational trophoblastic disease are usually heavy bleeding or hemorrhage.
21485	Patients with this illness will first have a difficulty in walking. After that, sensation, coordination, strength, and reflexes in their limbs will begin fail. They will also have problems with their hearing and with their vision. A very kinky hair is one of the characteristics of having giant axonal neuropathy and it appears to almost all people that are affected with this disease. The central nervous system will also be affected if the illness continues and causes a slow decline in their mental function and losses its control in the movement of their body and seizures.
21486	Females are the most affected with giant cell arteritis those men. It starts at the age of about 70 years old and it is very rare for people who are less than 50 years old. The patients will experience fever, headaches, scalp tenderness and sensitivity, pain in the jaw when chewing, blurred vision and sudden blindness. If vision has disappeared in both of the eyes, a medical emergency is needed.
21487	The most common 'B Symptoms' of of Castleman's disease are high fevers, anemia, weight loss, loss of appetite, and low white blood cell counts, which may to be due to the overproduction of interleukin 6. Symptomatically, therefore, this disease can be difficult to diagnose and even in the case of a lymph-node biopsy a conclusive diagnosis remains problematic.
21488	The most common form of symptoms is the redness of the yes, the irritation and watering eyes. They may also experience having itching and closing of the throat. It is also difficult opening the eyes in the morning.
21489	People with the disease are prone to bleeding episodes; events that may trigger bleeding also help induce the onset of the disease, such as menstruation, ulcers, surgeries and trauma.
21490	Some people with giardia infection - especially children - never develop symptoms but still carry the parasite and can spread it to others. For those who do get sick, signs and symptoms typically appear a week to 10 days after exposure and may include: watery, sometimes malodorous diarrhea that may alternate with soft, greasy stools; abdominal cramps and bloating; nausea; fatigue; and weight loss of as much as 10 to 15 pounds.
21491	Persons infected with the disease do not experience symptoms during its first stages; fever and chills after eating a meal can be expected from patients with giardiasis.
21492	After around 1 or 2 weeks of infection, the symptoms begin to show. Among the symptoms of giardiasis are fever, lethargy, loss of appetite, watery stool, upset stomach, bloating, stomach cramps, flatulence, sulphurous burping, and in rare cases, projectile vomiting.
21493	The symptoms of gigantism vary, and it is difficult to say what is standard, as the average height and weight vary among races and is also affected by genetics. However, other symptoms present themselves in other parts of the body, not necessarily in weight or height. These include a prominent jaw, thickening of facial features, disproportionately large feet and hands, including very thick fingers and toes, weakness, irregular menstruation, secretion of breast milk, disproportionate growth during childhood, and delayed puberty.
21494	Gilber's syndrome is primarily asymptomatic, although those suffering tend to commonly report the following: loss of appetite, abdominal pain, dark urine, irritable bowel syndrome, nausea or dizziness, fatigue, and difficulty maintaining concentration. Persons at risk for jaundice are those who are under stress, have infections, fasting, and exertion. The disease also affects the liver's functioning in terms of detoxification of drugs. It is associated with certain diseases whose medications require the use of irinotecan, for example.
21495	The symptoms of Gilles de la Tourette's syndrome can range from mild to severe but are all characterized by involuntary body movements. Its primary symptoms are classified into behavioral, motor, and vocal manifestations. These include kicking, arm thrusting, shrugging, eye blinking, jumping, and shouting. Additionally, the symptoms vary over time, in terms of frequency as well as severity. The tics, primary symptoms of the condition, usually occur in short stretches but in higher frequency.
21496	Early stages of gum disease are rarely painful, which is why some people have them yet are not aware of it. The symptoms of gingivitis are soft, swollen gums, gums that have frequently bleed especially after flossing or brushing, mouth sores, itchy gums, receding gumline, and color change in the gums from pink to red.
21497	Among the symptoms of the disease are the development of sores in the cheeks and gums, general discomfort, fever, loss of appetite and bad breath.
21498	The common symptoms of Gitelman syndrome include hypokalemia, hypochloremic metabolic alkalosis, and hypocalciuria. In some cases, hypomagnesemia is also present. In some cases, other symptoms present themselves, including craving for salt, fatigue, general weakness, cramps, polydipsia, nocturia, and dizziness. In its most severe forms, paralysis and tetany also present themselves.
21499	Symptoms include hypochloremic metabolic alkalosis, hypokalemia and hypocalciuria. Person suffering from this condition is said to have symptoms similar to those who are on thiazide diuretics (O'Shaughnessy KM, Karet FE (2004). "Salt handling and hypertension". J. Clin. Invest. 113 (8): 1075-81).
21500	Skin infections with pus Infections in the pulmonary area Infections in the blood stream Chronic suppurative infections Fever
21501	Among the symptoms of glandular fever are fever, chills, malaise, sore throat and fatigue that my last for weeks.
21502	The symptoms of Glanzmann's thrombasthenia vary on the severity of the condition, but typically includes increased bleeding post-operation, spontaneous bleeding within joints and mucosal tissues, easy bruising, nosebleeds, bleeding gums, and abnormal menstrual periods.
21503	One person may develop nerve damage at a relatively low pressure, while another person may have high eye pressure for years and yet never develop damage. Untreated glaucoma leads to permanent damage of the optic nerve and resultant visual field loss, which can progress to blindness.
21504	The symptoms vary according to the location in the central nervous system. Symptoms of brain gliomas are nausea, vomiting, headaches, cranial nerve disorders and seizures. Visual loss is the main symptom of optic nerve gliomas. Symptoms of spinal cord gliomas include numbness, pain, or weakness in any of the extremities.
21505	The most established type of symptoms are neurological deficits, personality, and progressive memory. Common symptoms are similar to brain tumors, and these include vomiting, nausea, seizures, headaches, dizziness, eyesight problems hemiparesis, difficulty speaking or walking, abnormal pulse, and intense headaches.
21506	The symptoms of a glioma depend on its location in the central nervous system. Optic nerve gliomas are characterized by visual loss. Brain gliomas, on the other hand, are presents headaches, seizures, dizziness, vomiting, and cranial nerve disorders. And symptoms of spinal cord gliomas include weakness, numbness, and pain in the extremities.
21507	Gliomatosis cerebri presents with any or a number of the following symptoms: recurrent headaches, cognitive and behavioral problems, nausea, hydrocephalus, cranial nerve paresis, pressure inside the skull, seizures, impaired memory, dementia, vision problems, speech problems, personality changes, motor dysfunction, and weakness.
21508	Symptoms usually depends upon the location of the tumor but the most prevalent includes recurring headaches, vomiting, unsteadiness, vision and cognitive problems
21509	The signs of glomerular diseases are proteinuria, hematuria, reduced glomerular filtration rate, and edema.
21510	The symptoms of glomerulonephritis includes foamy or dark urine, weight loss, vomiting, nausea, headaches, fatigue, general itching, hiccups, easy bruising, drowsiness, decreased alertness, delirium, confusion, coma, muscle twitching, cramps, seizures, excessive urination, blood in vomit or stools, and nosebleeding.
21511	During the early phases, the disease may be asymptomatic. However, proteinuria, or the occurrence or large amounts of protein in the urine, is an important warning sign.
21512	The signs and symptoms of glossits include tongue swelling, a smooth appearance of the tongue, differences in color, sore tongue and difficulty in swallowing.
21513	The symptoms are generally a burning sensation on the tongue, lips, or entire mouth area.
21514	The general symptoms of glossophobia are complete avoiding of events wherein the patient will have to speak in front of a group or command a group's attention, extreme anxiety at the very thought of doing such a thing, or even prior to the event; and feeling stressed, panicky, and nauseous during said events. Its symptoms may also be more specifically grouped into verbal, non-verbal, and physical. Verbal symptoms include quivering in the voice, repeating "ahh" or "umm", and a tense voice. The physical symptoms include increased heart rate, dilated pupils, acute hearing, increased oxygen intake, increased perspiration, dry mouth, and stiffening of the upper back and neck muscles.
21515	Symptoms of glucagonoma include an inflamed tongue and mouth, increased urination and nocturnal urination, increased appetite, excessive thirst, unintentional weight loss, skin rash that may occur on the abdomen, face, buttocks, or lower extremities. The insulin and glucagon imbalance in the body may lead to diabetes mellitus. This occurs in 90% of patients who have glucagonoma. Necrolytic migratory erythema or NME is considered a classical symptom of glucagonoma. NME is presented by erythematous blisters and swelling in areas prone to friction, such as buttocks, groin, lower abdomen, and perineum.
21516	Some symptoms include painless hepatomegaly and splenomegaly; hypersplenism; cirrhosis of the liver (rare); neurological symptoms; osteoporosis; and yellowish-brown skin pigmentation.
21517	Because of the x-linked nature of the disease, sufferers are almost always men. However, females may also be affected. Symptoms of glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase deficiency include jaundice, dark urine, paleness, fatigue, enlarged spleen, shortness of breath, rapid heart rate, and in severe cases, acute renal failure. Hemolysis may also occur as a reaction to diabetic ketoacidosis, severe infection, antimalarial medication, medicines that contain phenacetin or aspirin, antibiotics, some antihelmintics, henna, and fava beans.
21518	The symptoms for glucose-galactose malabsorption may sometimes only be noticeable by a doctor. These include dehydration, failure to thrive, diarrhea following milk consumption, abdominal bloating, abdominal cramps, gas, and nausea.
21519	The symptoms of glue ear are hearing difficulties, greenish fluid found in the inner ear, and pain inside the ear.
21520	The symptoms of GA will depend on the severity of the condition, and on its two classifications: GA1 prior to encephalopathic crisis, and GA1 following the encephalopathic crisis. The symptoms of GA1 prior to encephalopathic crisis includes macrocephaly, which in itself is a warning sign for other neurological diseases. On the other hand, symptoms for GA1 after the encephalopathic crisis include neuromotor problems such as spasms, decreased muscle tone, rigidity, jerking, and muscle weakness.
21521	Most people with the disease have general complaints, like intermittent diarrhea, abdominal pain and bloating. Sometimes people with celiac disease may present no gastrointestinal symptoms at all. Celiac disease symptoms can also imitate those of other conditions, such as irritable bowel syndrome, gastric ulcers, Crohn's disease, parasite infections, anemia, skin disorders or a nervous condition.
21522	Symptoms depend on the type of enzyme lacking in the body. The muscle and liver are the most affected areas, so those are usually the locations where symptoms are most notieceable. These may include enlarged liver, growth failure, swollen belly, low blood sugar, and muscle cramps.
21523	The symptoms usually present themselves by 2 years of age. These include hepatomegaly, seizures, other appearances of severe fasting hypoglycemia, vomiting sometimes accompanied by minor illness and hypoglycemia, respiratory difficulties, and hyperventilation. ................................................................................................................................................ Glycogen storage disease type 1B is autosomal recessive in nature, although the carriers, or the patient's parents, tend to be asymptomatic. Its incidence in the United States is 1 in 100,000 or 200,000.
21524	The most common symptoms include stiff muscles after exercise, fatigue, reduced red cell phosphorofructase activity, reticulocystis, and reduced red cell life span. Other symptoms include muscle cramps, muscle pain after exercise, gout, recurrent jaundice, increased blood uric acid levels, and destruction of red blood cells. In rare cases, myoglobin is present in the urine.
21525	Symptoms of GSD type II are classified according to time of onset. Infantile, also known as early onset, is characterized by enlarged heart and liver, lack of muscle tone, and weakness. These symptoms are noticed usually not long after birth. Development is not affected until a few months after birth, and will worsen as the disease progresses. However, mental function remains unaffected. Juvenile onset symptoms are exhibited anytime from early to late childhood. These include weakness of lower limbs, diaphragm, progressive weakness of respiratory muscles in trunk, and intolerance to exercise. Adult onset symptoms include degeneration of respiratory muscles in trunk, diaphragm, and lower limbs, as well as muscle weakness. In many cases, headaches during nighttime or waking time occur, respiratory distress, muscle weakness, and decreased deep tendon reflexes.
21526	Symptoms include muscle difficulty during short yet intense activities, cramps, muscle pain, myalgia intolerance, stiff muscles during exercise, and fatigue. Rest can provide relief to aching muscles and can perform the second round of activities with less pain. Rhabdomyolysis may also occur, leading to myoglobinuria, a condition characterized by red or brown colored urine.
21527	Symptoms include growth retardation, prominent heptomegaly, mild fasting hypoglycemia and hyperketosis. Patients may also exhibit hyperlipidemia, muscle weakness, hypotonia, and increased serum transaminases. However, these biochemical defects may disappear upon puberty. Rare cases exhibit symptoms such as myopathy, renal tubule acidosis, and fatal cardiomyopathy. Liver enlargement is common, but will decrease in size as the patient ages.
21528	Classic and late-onset symptoms include fixed limb weakness, jaundice, joint pain, muscle weakness especially after exercise, and muscle contractions. Fatal infant onset symptoms include cataracts, muscle weakness, and joint contractures.
21529	Symptoms includes dry mouth that is not related to thirst, polyuria, sudden weight loss, fatigue and tendency to get tired to simple activities, pruritus vulvae or itching in women diagnosed with the condition and balanitis in the men's organ, phimosis, myopia or short sightedness and nausea and vomiting.
21530	Symptoms of goitre include difficulty swallowing and breathing, a tight sensation in the throat, coughing, and enlargement of thyroid gland as a result of swelling in the neck. Other symptoms may also occur depending on what caused the goitre.
21531	Symptoms include benign growths on the eye, missing eye, partially formed or absent ear, the chin may be closer to the affected ear, and one corner of the mouth is higher than the other. In some cases, internal organs are affected, usually the heart, lungs, and kidneys. The internal organs are either be absent, or have one side that is undeveloped. Other symptoms include hemifacial microsomia, cleft palate and cleft lip, as well as cysts on the eye.
21532	Golfer's elbow is characterized by pain and tenderness, stiffness, weakness, and numbness or tingling.
21533	Symtoms of gonadal dysgenesis include short stature, slow development of secondary sex characteristics, low hairline, webbing of neck, absence of menstruation, coarctation of aorta, skeletal deformities, and eye abnormalities such as drooping eyelids. Gonadal dysgenesis also causes intersexuality, hence the presence of neither male nor female genitalia.
21534	Symptoms includes penoscrotal hypospadias, partially formed uterus, presence of fallopian tubes in the male sexes, enlarged clitoris, hypospadias, gonad abnormalities and varying degree of virilization.
21535	Symptoms include short stature, lymphoedema or swelling of the hands and feet, broad chest and widely-spaced nipples, low hairline, sterility and rudimentary ovalied gonadal streak. It may also include a small lower jaw and cubitus valgus or turned-out elbows.
21536	Includes hypoestrogenic or low estrogen level because of the nonfunctional streak ovaries; high level of FSH and LH.
21537	Undeveloped secondary characteristics at puberty, absence of menstruation and streak gonads are the symptoms of this medical condition.
21538	Symptoms include intense inflammation of the eye, copious purulent discharge.
21539	Signs and symptoms of gonorrhea may include: Thick, cloudy or bloody discharge from the penis or vagina; Pain or burning sensation when urination; Frequent urination; Pain during sexual intercourse
21540	Symptoms vary depending on whether the patient's lung and kidney are affected. In case the lungs are affected, the symptoms include serious and more often dry cough and breathlessness. In cases where the patient's kidney is affected the common symptoms include blood leaks in the urine, loss of appetite, high blood pressure and edema or the swelling caused by fluid retention.
21541	Kidney and lung disease are usually present in most cases; however sometimes it may just be one or the other. Lung symptoms usually develop prior to the kidney symptoms. The lung symptoms may seem harmless at first, and can occur for years before severe symptoms develop. These include cough and minor breathlessness that progress into hemoptysis and anemia as a result of blood loss in lung hemorrhaging. Kidney disease includes nephritis, rapidly progressive glomurelonephritis, hematuria, acute renal failure, loss of appetite, breathlessness, edema, and high blood pressure.
21542	The symptoms of Gorham's disease vary from case to case. Typically they include progressive weakness and musculoskeletal pain. In some cases, bone loss is not replaced by new bones. Instead, fibrous tissue may grow in its place, although this leads to a fracture which results in faster progression of the disease. In its early stages, radiographic detection will show decreased bone mass. Gorham's disease may also present itself through acute or chronic pain. Bone deformity occurs in children. Severe cases are characterized by a pleural effusion, or when fluid accumulates in the space the chest cavity and the membrane around the lungs. The bones usually affected include shoulder, arm, hand, part of the pelvis, jaw, spine, skull, spleen, hips, lungs, and femur.
21543	Persons with gorlin syndrome suffer from multiple cell carcinomas and jaw cysts.
21544	Signs and symptoms of gout are almost always acute, occurring suddenly often at night and without warning. They include: Intense joint pain gout usually affects the large joint of your big toe but it can occur in your feet, ankles, knees, hands and wrists. Inflammation and redness the affected joint or joints to be swollen, tender and red.
21545	Patients who have undergone the transplant must be on the lookout for symptoms immediately after the procedure. Early diagnosis may be difficult because symptoms may be caused by other factors. The most common symptoms include irritated or dry eyes; dryness, sensitivity and pain in the mouth; and changes in skin color or texture. Less common symptoms include irritated or dry vaginas in women, thinning hair, brittle fingernails, unexplained weight loss, nausea, vomiting, and diarrhea.
21546	Grand mal seizures have two stages: Tonic phase, wherein loss of consciousness occurs, and the muscles suddenly contract and cause the person to fall down, and a period of rigidity follows; and Clonic phase, wherein the muscles go into rhythmic contractions, alternately flexing and relaxing, and convulsions usually last for less than two minutes.
21547	The symptoms of granulocytopenia are not exclusive and may be a result of other diseases. It is best to talk to a physician to make sure and observe the symptoms. They include bacterial pneumonia, bleeding gums, mouth ulcers, low white blood cell count, rapid onset of chills, fever, weakness, jaundice, sore throat, and a higher susceptibility to infections including fungal.
21548	Granuloma annulare is generally marked by reddish or skin-colored bumps (lesions) that expand or join to form ring patterns, most commonly on the hands and feet. These patterns may resemble ringworm. Another symptoms is mild itching in some people, though the lesions usually cause no pain or itching.
21549	The signs of the disease are painless nodules that have developed 10 to 40 days after the bacterial infestation. The nodules will then burst, opening oozing lesions and will continue to destroy the genital tissue until it is treated. These nodules usually develop in the penis, and labia.
21550	Pyogenic granulomas are commonly found on the feet and toes, lips, gums, and inner mouth (particularly in pregnant women), head and neck, hands and fingers and the upper trunk. They typically appear as a beefy, red bump that enlarges rapidly over a few weeks, averaging to about 5-10 mm in diameter. They may in some cases be tender or may bleed easily. More than one lesion of pyogenic granuloma may develop at the same time at the same site but this happens very rarely.
21551	Among the symptoms shown by persons with the disease are focal paralysis, brainstem problems and seizures.
21552	Symptoms include brittle hair, irritability, anxiety, irregular or rapid heartbeat, fatigue, light menstrual period, increased perspiration, sensitivity to heat, goiter, tremor in hands or fingers, difficulty sleeping, unexplained weight loss, shortness of breath, mental impairment such as diminished memory span and memory lapses, nervousness, erratic behavior, protruding eyeballs, sensitivity to light, double vision, breast enlargement in men, chronic sinus infections, dizziness, hair loss, and itchy skin.
21553	Symptoms of gray platelet syndrome include nosebleeds, easy bruising, prolonged bleeding, and menorrhagia. If an individual has family history of mild bleeding tendency after injury or surgery, this increases his risk factors for acquiring the disorder.
21554	Symptoms of great vessels transposition includes poor feeding, shortness of breath, clubbing of toes or fingers, and blue skin. The symptoms usually appear at birth, or not long after. The symptoms also vary according to the kind of associated defect and amount of oxygenated blood supplied to the circulation.
21556	Fever, chills, colds, cough, fatigue and muscle aches are the most common signs of influenza.
21557	Symptoms include pigmentary dilution of the skin and hair silver. The presence of large clumps in the pigment in hair shafts and accumulation of melanosomes are also shown.
21559	The only visible sign of hematuria is pink, red or cola-colored urine, which is the result of the presence of red blood cells. It takes very little blood to produce red urine, and the bleeding typically isn't painful. Bloody urine often happens without other signs or symptoms.
21560	There are usually no symptoms of the disease; only immediate effects such as ruptures during labor can determine the presence of GBS. Babies who are diagnosed with diseases such as meningitis may also have acquired it through GBS.
21561	The disease starts sporadically, usually in itchy spots around the body especially the mid chest and back. Its symptoms include an itchy eruption, sometimes lasting from 10 to 12 months. Papulovesicles and papules are seen in the lower sternum, chest, arms, back, and thighs. The red spots may change in certain temperatures although there is no known pattern for this.
21562	Growing pains are generally described as an ache or throb in the legs - often in the front of the thighs, the calves or behind the knees. Typically both legs hurt. Growing pains usually strike in the late afternoon or early evening and disappear by morning. There are time when the pain awakens a child in the middle of the night.
21563	Apart from the obvious short stature, symptoms include severe headaches and changes in vision. The symptoms present themselves within the first 2 years of life.
21564	Symptoms of growth hormone deficiency in children include low growth velocity for pubertal stage and age, a child looking younger than others his age, delayed tooth development, short stature, and delayed onset of puberty. In adults, the symptoms include weight again especially around the waist area, low energy, decreased strength, low tolerance to exercise, dry and thin skin, and feelings of depression and anxiety.
21565	The symptoms of growth problems include the failure to gain normal weight and height, poor appetite and diarrhea.
21566	Its symptoms includes muscle weakness, disorder experiences, tremors, facial tics and seizures
21568	Symptoms include weakness in their legs of varying levels, sometimes accompanied by tingling sensations; legs that tend to buckle, "rubbery legs". The symptoms will continue as the disease progresses, sometimes in hours or in days. Later on, the facial and arm muscles may be affected, as well as the lower cranial nerves and respiratory system. Hospitalization is common for patients of GBS.
21569	A few days to hours before the worm emerges, the person might develop a fever and have swelling and pain in the area where the worm is. A swelling develops and then opens into a wound. When the wound is dip into water, the worm begins to emerge. Usually worms appear on the legs and feet, but they can occur anywhere on the body. After the worm develop, the wound often becomes painfully swollen and infected.
21570	To this syndrome has wide-ranging, including chronic fatigue, loss of muscle control, headaches, dizziness and loss of balance, memory problems, muscle and joint pain, indigestion, skin problems, shortness of breath, and even insulin resistance.
21571	Symptoms of gum cancer are small, tender growths that form in the gum tissue. These growths soon eat up the gum tissues resulting to deformities in the oral cavity. Other symptoms are gum swelling and pain, difficulties in eating, chewing and swallowing, and gum sores.
21572	The symptoms of gingivitis are the following: Swollen gums, Mouth sores and bright-red or purple gums, Shiny gums, Gums those are not painful, except when pressure is applied Gums that easily bleeds, even with gentle brushing, and especially when flossing. Itchy gums with varying degrees of severity Dark red gums that are usually pinkish and bleeding faint blue tearing from eyes
21574	Its Symptoms include display of undue anxiety, fear and worries which in reality is rather unfounded and irrational on seeing other people naked or being naked.
21575	Breast prominence can result from hypertrophy of breast tissue, chest adipose tissue and skin, and is typically a combination. Breast prominence due solely to excessive adipose is frequently termed pseudogynecomastia or sometimes lipomastia.
21576	The H. pylori bacterium releases toxins that may affect cells in the lining of the stomach or induce inflammation. Researchers are still in the process of investigating and characterizing exactly how these toxins work and how they lead to illnesses. Although most cases of H. pylori infection produce no signs or symptoms, the toxic properties of the bacterium can result to disorders of the stomach or the first part of your small intestine (duodenum). Signs and symptoms linked with H. pylori infection can vary in severity and duration depending on which disorder is present.
21577	Hib symptoms may include lethargy, fever, vomiting and stiff neck.
21577	Hib symptoms may include lethargy, fever, vomiting and stiff neck.
21578	There generally no prevalent symptoms of the medical condition but the deficiency is said to manifest through unusual low bleeding.
21580	Signs and symptoms of trichotillomania include: patchy bald areas on the scalp or other areas of the body; sparse or missing eyelashes or eyebrows; chewing or eating pulled out hair; playing with pulled-out hair; and rubbing pulled-out hair across the lips or face.
21581	Symptoms of hairy cell leukemia are quite vague, and are representative of other diseases. They include easy bruising, weight loss, weakness, fullness in the abdomen, fatigue, and recurring infections.
21583	A majority of the tongue's surface is covered in hair. Other symptoms include discoloration of the tongue in black, orange, yellow, brown, or green, with a hairy texture. Although painless, the patient will notice a stale smell or taste in the mouth, and gag reflexes become more sensitive. Symptoms will always appear in the top of the mouth and not underneath. A secondary disorder, thrush, may affect those with the condition. The condition is caused by the growth of yeast and bacteria on the tongue projections, called papillae.
21584	Symptoms includes breakdown of bone which is most common in the bones of the fingers and toes, deformed skull, short stature, laxity of the joints and reduction of the bone mass (Olivera Potparic, John Gibson A Dictionary of Congenital Malformations and Disorders).
21585	There are a few systemic (non-oral) medical conditions, which may cause foul breath odor, but these are extremely infrequent in the general population. Such conditions are: Fetor hepaticus: an example of a rare type of bad breath caused by chronic liver failure.
21586	Among the characteristic features of people affected by the disorder are a short, broad head, underdeveloped mandible, arched palate and a thin, tapering nose. Congenital cataracts are also present.
21587	The symptoms usually present themselves during childhood, and progress until death during early adulthood. These include stiffness of limbs, dystonia, dementia, dysphagia, seizures, weakness, spasticity, writhing movements, and pigmentary retinopathy.
21588	Hallucination itself is a symptom of other psychiatric disorders. When one hallucinates, he claims to have seen people or things; as well as hear voices. But in reality, these perceptions do not exist.
21589	Symptoms of hallux valgus include swelling of the metatarsophalangeal joint, redness and pain in the joint, irritated skin around the bunion, and a shifting of the big toe to other toes.
21590	Among the symptoms of hamburger disease is intense abdominal pain, diarrhea, vomiting and fever. When not treated, the disease can be fatal.
21591	Signs and symptoms of hammertoe may include: a hammer-like or claw-like appearance of a toe; pain and difficulty moving the toe; and corns and calluses resulting from the toe rubbing against the inside of the footwear.
21592	Symptoms include upper respiratory problems, low grade fever, abdominal pain, mouth ulcers, malaise, painful oral lesions, sores with blisters on soles of feet and palms of hands as well as buttocks.
21593	Symptoms of Rett syndrome include microcephaly, small feet and hands, repetitive hand movements such as wringing or mouthing, cognitive impairment, problems with socialization, loss of purposeful use of hands, slowed brain and head growth, seizures, gait abnormalities, and mental retardation. The severity of symptoms and age of onset will vary from child to child.
21594	Symptoms include defects of the skull and in the mandible, unusually long bones, pelvis, ribs and spine.
21595	Symptoms include ocular lesions and palmoplanter hyperkeratosis. Eye symptoms include redness, lacrimaton and photophobis.
21596	Among the symptoms of leprosy are the development of nodules and folds of skin that produce itchiness. Cataracts are also incurred by the patient. As the disease develops the lesions eat up the nerves, causing eventual decay of the affected areas. Loss of sensation and tenderness of the skin are also observed.
21597	Symptoms include pneumonia, hemorrhagic fever, malaise, diarrhea, headache, myalgia, backache, muscle ache, vomiting, nausea, low blood pressure, breathing difficulty, hypoxemia, rapid heart rate, kidney insufficiency, bleeding, protein in urine, petechiae, gastrointestinal bleeding, bleeding from uterus, nose and mouth, retinitis, encephalitis, bruises, and icterus.
21598	Symptoms includes breathing problems usually accompanied by fever, chills, malaise, headaches, nausea, abdominal and back pain as well as gastro intestinal problems and tachycardia and tachypnoea.
21599	Symptoms include macrogyria, argyria, brain abnormalities, thick brain cortex, absent septum pallucidum, absent corpus callosum, hypoplastic septum pallucidum, hydrocephalus, cataract, hypoplastic corpus callosum, brain abnormalities, ventriculomegaly, Peters anomaly, Dandy-Walker malformation, glaucoma, corneal clouding, small eye, coloboma, retinal detachment, seizures, retinal dysplasia, retinal malformations, and genital anomalies in males.
21600	Symptoms include an abnormal contraction of the eyes, mouth, ears, and other appendages. The sufferers have cranial and facial deformities. The ears and nose may be entirely absent or poorly developed. The eyelids have severe ectropion, wherein they are everted, making the eye and the area surrounding it vulnerable to trauma. Bleeding in them is also common in birth, The lips are fixed into a wide grimace, a condition called Eclabium. The abnormal deforming of the fingers, arms, and feet prevent them from bending properly. Hypoplasia is also present in the fingers. Polydactyly is also common in infants.
21601	Symptoms include the unfounded and irrational fear of being robbed. Stress, anxiety, sweating and general tensions are often displayed.
21602	Symptoms include photosensitivity, failure to thrive, nystagmus, tremor, and intermittent ataxia. Other symptoms include pellagralike skin eruptions, gross aminoaciduria, and cerebellar ataxia. Acute attacks may be caused by exposure to sunlight, poor nutrition, psychological stress, and or sulphonamide medications.
21603	Symptoms of hyperthyroidism are also present in some cases of Hashimoto's thyroiditis. Other symptoms include weight loss, weight gain, goiter, low pulse, fat pulse, fatigue, mania, depression, migraines, constipation, memory loss, reactive hypoglycemia, high cholesterol, hair loss, infertility, and panic attacks.
21604	Signs and symptoms of hay fever typically develop immediately after exposure to specific allergy-causing substances (allergens) and can include: runny nose and nasal congestion; watery or itchy eyes; sneezing; coughing; itchy nose, roof of mouth, or throat; sinus pressure and facial pain; swollen, blue-colored skin under the eyes; and decreased sense of smell or taste.
21605	Symptoms includes sparse, coarse, wiry hair, small and sparse eyelashes, excessive band of fibrous tissue that causes fusing of the margins of the upper and lower eyelids, cleft palate and cleft lip.
21606	The usual symptoms of these cancers include weight loss, mass growing in the affected parts, and unusual profuse bleeding.
21607	Among the symptoms for these cancers are growths in the affected organs in the head. Lesser signs include swelling of the affected area, weight loss, and fatigue.
21608	Signs and symptoms of lice include: intense itching; lice on the scalp, the body, clothing, or pubic or other body hair; lice eggs (nits) on hair shafts (nits resemble tiny pussy willow buds and can be mistaken for dandruff, but unlike dandruff, they can't be easily brushed out of hair); and small, red bumps on the scalp, neck and shoulders.
21610	Symptoms of a common attack last for about 15 minutes and can last for 3 hours. Headaches are severe, of piercing quality. The headaches are usually unilateral, although in some cases there is side-shifting, but in rare cases the headaches are bilateral. The pain is described as excruciating and burning. Other symptoms include drooping eyelids, tearing, red-eye, runny nose, sweating, and facial blushing. Sufferers also are typically restless, as they tend to move about frequently to soothe themselves of the pain. Sufferers also tend to avoid loud noise and bright light during periods of attack.
21611	Symptoms of a common attack last for about 15 minutes and can last for 3 hours. Headaches are severe, of piercing quality. The headaches are usually unilateral, although in some cases there is side-shifting, but in rare cases the headaches are bilateral. The pain is described as excruciating and burning. Other symptoms include drooping eyelids, tearing, red-eye, runny nose, sweating, and facial blushing. Sufferers also are typically restless, as they tend to move about frequently to soothe themselves of the pain. Sufferers also tend to avoid loud noise and bright light during periods of attack.
21612	Ice cream headaches lead to sharp, stabbing pain in the forehead. The pain typically peaks about 30 to 60 seconds after it begins. Ice cream headaches seldom last longer than a minute or two.
21613	Cough headaches: strike suddenly with and just after coughing or other types of straining; usually last a few seconds to a few minutes - some can last up to 30 minutes; cause sharp, stabbing or splitting pain; usually affect both sides of the head and the back of the skull; and can be followed by a dull, aching pain for several hours.
21614	Rebound headaches are also known as medication overuse headaches. These types of headaches tend to occur every day, often waking the person in the early morning. Signs and symptoms may include: nausea, anxiety, restlessness, irritability, difficulty concentrating, memory problems, depression, and trouble sleeping.
21615	There are two kinds of sex headaches. The most common variety gives no warning and hapens within a few seconds of an orgasm. Pain is typically described as throbbing or stabbing. The other variety of sex headache often starts as a dull ache on both sides of the head and builds gradually over a matter of minutes before an orgasm, typically intensifying as sexual excitement increases. Most sex headaches last only a few minutes. Others may persist for a few hours. Many people who have sex headaches will go through them in clusters for a few months, and then go for more than a year without any sex headaches.
21616	Symptoms of a sinus headache include pain or pressure around the eyes, cheeks and forehead; tender skin and bones over and under the eyes; and pain when bending over, during jarring movements or blowing of the nose.
21617	Spinal headaches differ in intensity from mild to incapacitating. The pain usually gets worse when one sits up or stands and decreases or goes away when lying down. Spinal headaches are often accompanied by: dizziness, ringing in the ears, nausea, and visual changes.
21618	Tension-type headache pain is generally described as a constant pressure, as if the head were being squeezed in a vise. The pain is usually bilateral which means it is present on both sides of the head at once. Tension-type headache pain is often mild to moderate, but may be severe.
21619	Thunderclap headaches are dramatic since the pain strikes suddenly and severely. Some people describe the pain as the worst headache they've ever had. The pain peaks within a minute and usually lasts several hours - although some thunderclap headaches may linger for up to 10 days.
21620	This kind of headache usually wakes a child from sleep, occur with nausea during mornings, and grow worse as days pass by. Children also develop personality disorders due to the pain.
21621	Symptoms of hearing disorders vary according to its nature, but general symptoms include ear pain, earache, stuffiness or inflammation inside the ear, and ringing in the ear called tinnitus. Other symptoms include vertigo, dizziness, and nerve damage.
21622	Symptoms include total loss of hearing or gradual loss of the same.
21623	Symptoms includes deterioration or loss of the capacity to hear well sounds even if the same is amplified.
21624	Often, abnormal heart rhythms cause noticeable signs and symptoms such as: a fluttering in the chest, either a racing or slow heartbeat, chest pain, shortness of breath, lightheadedness, dizziness, and fainting or syncope.
21625	Common signs and symptoms of a heart attack include: pressure, fullness or a squeezing pain in the center of the chest that lasts for more than a few minutes; pain extending beyond the chest to the shoulder, arm, back, or even to the teeth and jaw; increasing episodes of chest pain; prolonged pain in the upper abdomen; shortness of breath; sweating; impending sense of doom; fainting; and nausea and vomiting.
21626	Heart babies usually present low birth weight and suffer from breathing difficulties. Their pulse rate is also abnormal.
21627	Bradycardia, the condition of slow heart rhythm, occurs in sufferers of heart block. Symptoms include chest pain or pressure, fatigue, palpitations, shortness of breath, lightheadedness, dizziness, and fainting. If the sufferers are children, they may have a difficulty describing their symptoms although they do have trouble keeping up with other children and will want to sit down to rest.
21628	Given that the left side of the heart pumps blood from the lungs to the organs, failure to do so results to congestion of the lung veins and symptoms that reflect this, as well as reduced supply of blood to the tissues. The predominant respiratory symptom is shortness of breath on exertion, or in severe cases at rest - and easy fatigueability.
21629	Most people with heart murmurs do not have any other signs and symptoms of a heart problem. The murmur is commonly innocent (harmless).
21630	Most commonly, people with this kind of medical condition have a weak heart and usually get tired easily depending on the adoption of the person.
21631	The symptoms of heartburn are the burning-type pain in the lower part of the mid-chest, behind the breast bone, and in the mid-abdomen.
21632	The most evident symptoms of heat cramps are immobility of affected areas, numbness and burning sensations.
21633	Signs and symptoms resemble those of shock and may include: feeling faint or dizzy; nausea; heavy sweating; rapid, weak heartbeat; low blood pressure; cool, moist pale skin; low-grade fever; heat cramps; headache; fatigue; and dark-colored urine.
21634	Heat rash occurs when the sweat gland ducts get plugged due to dead skin cells or bacteria such as Staphylococcus epidermidis, a common bacterium that occurs on the skin which is also associated with acne. The trapped sweat leads to irritation, itching and to a rash of very small blisters, usually in a localized area of the skin.
21635	The skin will become red as blood vessels dilate in an attempt to increase heat dissipation. The low blood pressure will cause blood vessels to contract as heat stroke progresses, resulting in a pale or bluish skin color. Complain regarding hot feeling may be followed by chills and trembling, as is the case in fever. Some victims, considering young children, may suffer convulsions. Acute dehydration that accompanies heat stroke can produce nausea and vomiting; temporary blindness may also be observed. Eventually, as body organs begin to defuse, unconsciousness and coma will result.
21636	Symptoms vary depending on the nature and quality of the heavy metal that were intake. Generally, symptoms like nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, stomach pain, headache, sweating and metallic state of the mouth are exhibited. Impairment also of cognitive, motor and language skills are shown.
21637	Swelling of the heel bone is observed, but heel spur itself is a symptom of the disease plantar fasciitis.
21638	Many cases of peptic ulcers, gastritis, duodenitis, and cancers are caused by Helicobacter pylori infections. But, many who are infected do not show any symptoms of disease. Helicobacter pylori's helical shape (from which the genus name is derived) is thought to have evolved to penetrate and favor its motility in the mucus gel layer.
21639	Common signs and symptoms include breathlessness, difficulty in thinking or speaking, dizziness, losing control and the inability to concentrate and palpitations, shaking, sweating and anxiety attacks.
21640	A child affected with childhood disintegrative disorder displays normal development, generally up to an age of 2 years, and he/she acquires "normal development of age-appropriate verbal and nonverbal communication, social relationships, motor, play and self-care skills" comparable to other children of the same age. However, from around the age of 2 through the age of 10, skills acquired are lost almost completely in at least two of the following six functional areas: language skills, receptive language skills, social and self-care skills, control over bowel and bladder, play skills, and motor skills.
21641	Early symptoms of HELLP syndrome include a diagnosis for pregnancy-induced hypertension, or suspicions of pre-eclampsia. Other symptoms include headaches, malaise, blurred vision, vomiting, nausea, tingling in the extremities, and band pain in the abdomen. 20% of HELLP sufferers exhibit disseminated intravascular coagulation, and in more than 80%, acute renal failure is present.
21642	Symptoms includes abdominal pain, diarrhea, fever, fatigue, enlarged liver and spleen, cough, malabsorption, anemia bowel obstruction,dehydration, itchy skin, malaise and gastrointestinal inflammation among others. (David William Thomasson Crompton, Lorenzo,david William Thomasson Crompton, Lorenzo,2006).
21644	Common symptoms of hemangioblastoma include pressure inside the skull which leads to hydrocephalus, nausea, vomiting, headaches, dizziness, balance problems, and difficulty walking. Benign or malignant tumors may also lead to brain angiomas, or cysts around them.
21645	Symptoms are described as falling in between an angiosarcoma and hemangioma. These vascular tumors are usually found in the intestines, neck, head, pleura, lungs, lymph nodes, retroperitoneum, and stomach as well as other parts of the body.
21646	During the early stages, hemangiomas look like bluish red areas, and at other times they are reddish pink. They can take on any shape or size. Eighty percent of hemangiomas occur on the face or neck.
21647	Symptoms include brownish-red and hard lesions on the skin, usually found on the trunk area and may be painful; internal hemangiomas located in the spleen, liver, or gastrointestinal tract and may possibly result in internal bleeding; and prolonged bleeding.
21648	Hematuria (blood in urine) typically presents with only one visible sign: a pinkish, reddish, or cola-colored discoloration in the urine. Hematuria itself does not occur with any other signs or symptoms, although a bloody urine usually indicates some underlying medical condition.
21649	The signs and symptoms of hemianopia are loss of half of one's vision, reduced night vision, and the need for more light in order to see properly.
21650	Symptoms of hemifacial microsomia include auricular deformities, asymmetry of face, and in severe cases, underdevelopment of: side of the skull, teeth, middle and external ear, teeth, upper and lower jaw, and some nerves involved in facial movement.
21651	Among the symptoms of hemifacial spasms are redness of the face and pain around the eye and upper cheeks.
21652	Hemihypertrophy is characterized by the asymmetric growth of the skull, face, trunk, limbs and digits.
21653	The symptoms of Hemimegalencephaly include delay in the development, convulsive disorders, brain cortex and spinal cord dysfunction and seizures.
21654	Symptoms include recurrent but temporary episodes of paralysis on one side of the body. The paralysis may be on the eye movement, limbs or facial muscles.
21656	Symptoms of VHF's include bleeding disorders, fever, and in extreme cases, high fever, shock, and even death. Other symptoms include chest and face flushes, edema, malaise, hypotension, headache, myalgias, diarrhea, and vomiting.
21657	Haemochromatosis is protean in its manifestations, example is often presenting with signs or symptoms suggestive of other diagnoses that affect specific organ systems. Several signs and symptoms below are uncommon and for most patients with the hereditary form of haemochromatosis do not show any overt signs of disease nor do they suffer premature morbidity.
21658	The common Symptoms of hemoglobinopathy include acute anemia and even hemolytic anemia.
21659	Symptoms of hemoglobinuria include shortness of breath, back pain, dark urine, blood clots, headache, and easy bruising or bleeding.
21661	The symptoms present in this disease are hymolysis, jaundice, enlarged vital organs such as the spleen and liver. The infant may die shortly after birth due to heart failure or respiratory distress.
21662	Among the signs of Hus include bloody diarrhea due to E.coli O157:H7 that produces verotoxin. Veratoxins initiates inflammatory reaction in the rectal area through the bloodstream. Low red blood cell count is also evident since the toxins attack the thrombocytes present in the blood.
21663	A strain of E.coli, called E.coli 0157:H7, causes bloody diarrhea in children. This is usually the first onset of HUS. This leads to acute renal failure, resulting in a decrease of thrombocytes and red blood cells. Other symptoms include red urine, less urine output, high blood pressure, swelling of the body, hands, and feet, swollen limbs, easy bruising or bleeding, and extreme fatigue.
21664	The symptoms of HLH include jaundice, fever, low blood count, enlarged spleen or liver, rash, paleness, fatigue, weight loss, and irritability.
21665	People with hemophilia usually display paleness, easy bruising, and eventual weakness. The disease is present only among males, since the affected X chromosome is carried by the mother.
21666	Hemophilia A may be mild, moderate or severe. Symptoms of those with mild hemophilia include easy bleeding after surgery/injury or tooth extraction, and symptoms may not occur until the patient reaches adulthood. Symptoms of moderate hemophilia A include easy bleeding after injury, or sudden bleeding without any cause, conditions called "spontaneous bleeding episodes". Severe hemophilia A is presented by spontaneous bleeding episodes, usually in muscles and joints. Other common sites of bleeding are the brain and digestive tract.
21667	Most persons afflicted with Hemophobia faint when they see or are exposed to blood.
21668	Hemorrhage itself is a symptom of other major organ diseases. Profuse bleeding is the main characteristic of hemorrhage. Bleeding can occur through an open wound, which can be immediately treated. Internal hemorrhage meanwhile is more dangerous since it causes blood clots and indicates that the blood vessels are growing weak.
21669	The patient suffers from a prolonged bleeding time, and has a low platelet count and large platelets.
21670	Although several people have hemorrhoids, not all experience symptoms. The most usual symptom of internal hemorrhoids is bright red blood covering the stool, on toilet paper, or in the toilet bowl. An internal hemorrhoid can protrude through the anus outside the body, becoming irritated and painful. This is considered as a protruding hemorrhoid. Symptoms of external hemorrhoids can include painful swelling or a hard lump around the anus that results when a blood clot forms. This condition is also known as a thrombosed external hemorrhoid.
21671	Symptoms of hemothorax includes tracheal deviation, tachypnea, cyanosis, dyspnea, dull resonance on percussion, narrowing pulse pressure, hypotension, pale, cold, and clammy skin, and possibly subcutaneous air.
21672	Among the symptoms of hendra virus include flu-like ailments, respiratory problems, fever, seizures, encephalitis and the inability to breathe normally.
21673	Typically, HSP causes skin rash, pain in the abdomen, and joint inflammation (arthritis). Not all features need be present to arrive at a diagnosis. The rash of skin lesions occurs in gravity-dependent areas, such as the legs. The joints most commonly affected with pain and swelling are the ankles and the knees. Patients with HSP can experience fever. Inflammation of the blood vessels in the kidneys can lead to blood and/or protein in the urine. Serious kidney complications are infrequent but can arise.
21674	Symptoms of HIT include thrombocytopenia, skin necrosis (death of skin cells surrounding the region of heparin injection), and blood clots. Blood clots are the most dangerous aspect of HIT because they can lead to pulmonary embolism, deep vein thrombosis, heart attack, stroke, or less blood supply to organs and limbs.
21675	Symptoms of hepatic encephalopathy include flapping tremor (asterixis), decreased level of coconsciousness and possibly trauma, impaired condition, cerebral edema, and possible death. Early signs include day and night reversal which mean that patients sleep during the day and are awake at night. Impairment in spatial cognition is also presented, wherein patients cannot draw simple shapes such as cubes and stars.
21676	The symptoms of the development of the tumors include the growth of small masses in the lower abdominal area. These tumors can be left undiagnosed until a person undergoes a medical examination for an unrelated disease.
21677	Patients with Heptic veno-occlusive disease shows signs of increased weight, enlarged liver, and increased blood levels of bilirubin.
21678	Initial features are of nonspecific flu-like symptoms, commonly seen in almost all acute viral infections and may include malaise, muscle and joint aches, fever, nausea or vomiting, diarrhea, and headache. More specific symptoms, which can be found in acute hepatitis from any cause, are: profound loss of appetite, aversion to smoking among smokers, dark urine, yellowing of the eyes and skin (i.e., jaundice) and abdominal discomfort.
21679	Clinically, the course of acute hepatitis varies greatly from mild symptoms requiring no treatment to fulminant hepatic failure needing liver transplantation. Initial features are of nonspecific flu-like symptoms, commonly seen in almost all acute viral infections and may include malaise, muscle and joint aches, fever, nausea or vomiting, diarrhea, and headache. More specific symptoms, which can be found in acute hepatitis from any cause, are: profound loss of appetite, aversion to smoking among smokers, dark urine, yellowing of the eyes and skin (i.e., jaundice) and abdominal discomfort.
21680	Clinically, the course of acute hepatitis varies greatly from mild symptoms requiring no treatment to fulminant hepatic failure needing liver transplantation. Initial features are of nonspecific flu-like symptoms, commonly seen in almost all acute viral infections and may include malaise, muscle and joint aches, fever, nausea or vomiting, diarrhea, and headache. More specific symptoms, which can be found in acute hepatitis from any cause, are: profound loss of appetite, aversion to smoking among smokers, dark urine, yellowing of the eyes and skin (i.e., jaundice) and abdominal discomfort.
21681	Clinically, the course of acute hepatitis varies greatly from mild symptoms requiring no treatment to fulminant hepatic failure needing liver transplantation. Initial features are of nonspecific flu-like symptoms, commonly seen in almost all acute viral infections and may include malaise, muscle and joint aches, fever, nausea or vomiting, diarrhea, and headache. More specific symptoms, which can be found in acute hepatitis from any cause, are: profound loss of appetite, aversion to smoking among smokers, dark urine, yellowing of the eyes and skin (i.e., jaundice) and abdominal discomfort.
21682	Clinically, the course of acute hepatitis varies greatly from mild symptoms requiring no treatment to fulminant hepatic failure needing liver transplantation. Initial features are of nonspecific flu-like symptoms, commonly seen in almost all acute viral infections and may include malaise, muscle and joint aches, fever, nausea or vomiting, diarrhea, and headache. More specific symptoms, which can be found in acute hepatitis from any cause, are: profound loss of appetite, aversion to smoking among smokers, dark urine, yellowing of the eyes and skin (i.e., jaundice) and abdominal discomfort.
21683	Among the symptoms of Hepatitis E are fatigue, enlarged liver and spleen, as well as jaundice. Yellowish skin and irises can be evident in persons with the disease.
21684	Alcoholic hepatitis is marked by a variable constellation of symptoms, which may include feeling unwell, enlargement of the liver, development of fluid in the abdomen ascites, and modest elevation of liver blood tests. Alcoholic hepatitis can differ from mild with only liver test elevation to severe liver inflammation with development of jaundice, prolonged prothrombin time, and liver failure. Severe cases are marked by either obtundation (dulled consciousness) or the combination of elevated bilirubin levels and prolonged prothrombin time. Its mortality rate in both categories is 50% within 30 days of onset. Initial features are of nonspecific flu-like symptoms, commonly seen in almost all acute viral infections and may include malaise, muscle and joint aches, fever, nausea or vomiting, diarrhea, and headache. More specific symptoms, which can be found in acute hepatitis from any cause, are: profound loss of appetite, aversion to smoking among smokers, dark urine, yellowing of the eyes and skin (i.e., jaundice) and abdominal discomfort.
21685	Clinically, the course of acute hepatitis varies greatly from mild symptoms requiring no treatment to fulminant hepatic failure needing liver transplantation. Initial features are of nonspecific flu-like symptoms, commonly seen in almost all acute viral infections and may include malaise, muscle and joint aches, fever, nausea or vomiting, diarrhea, and headache. More specific symptoms, which can be found in acute hepatitis from any cause, are: profound loss of appetite, aversion to smoking among smokers, dark urine, yellowing of the eyes and skin (i.e., jaundice) and abdominal discomfort.
21686	The symptoms of drug-induced hepatitis mirror those of viral hepatitis. Drug induced hepatitis has a tendency to be acute. If it is not detected soon enough the damage could be permanent resulting in chronic hepatitis. Some of the common symptoms are nausea, headache, vomiting, anorexia, jaundice, clay color stools, dark urine, and hepatomegaly.
21687	Flu-like symptoms as well as fever, abdominal pain, jaundice, nausea, fatigue, lack of concentration, and weight loss are observed in patients with the disease.
21688	In some cases, the symptoms progress quickly over a few days with an 'acute hepatitis'. This can lead to a fairly sudden onset of fever, abdominal pain, jaundice, feeling sick, vomiting, and generally feeling unwell. In some of these cases, the 'acute' hepatitis slows down to the more common type of chronic hepatitis. In some cases the 'acute hepatitis' develops severely and rapidly leads to liver failure.
21689	Mild forms of toxic hepatitis may not result to any noticeable problems and may be detected only by blood tests. When signs and symptoms occur, they're similar to those caused by other types of hepatitis, such as: yellowing of the skin and the whites of the eyes (jaundice), fatigue, loss of appetite, nausea and vomiting, weight loss, and dark or tea-colored urine.
21690	Symptoms may include of hepatoblastoma may include: a large abdominal mass, or swollen abdomen; weight loss, decreased appetite; abdominal pain; vomiting; jaundice; fever; itching skin; anemia; and back pain from compression of the tumor.
21691	The presenting liver cancer symptoms may include weight loss, poor appetite, right upper abdominal pain or discomfort, and jaundice (yellow skin and eyes and mucus membranes). The patient may notice nothing more than being excessively tired. Bleeding may arise in the abdomen or bile duct, although this is quite unusual. HCC's can also be found while other testing is done to follow patients along who have hepatitis or cirrhosis.
21692	The symptoms of hepatocerebral degeneration include tremors in the arms and head, ataxia, uncontrolled body movements, myoclonus, jaundice and impairment of brain functions. Gastrointestinal bleeding may also occur.
21694	The signs and symptoms that indicate the presence of hepatoma are weight loss, abdominal pain and the onset of a large mass at the upper right area of the abdomen. Other symptoms are a sudden ill feeling, fever, lowe blood pressure.
21695	AN enlarged liver often causes no signs or symptoms, though tenderness, pain and jaundice are possible.
21696	Symptoms include: decreased urine production; dark-colored urine; yellow skin; weight gain; abdominal swelling; change in mental status (dementia, delirium, confusion); caorse muscle movements (jerking); and nausea and vomiting.
21697	Symptoms of amyloidosis are dependent upon the area of the amyloid deposits and can range from mild to severe. In some extreme cases, amyloidosis can cause organ failure and death. The areas usually affected include gastrointestinal system, the heart, kidneys, liver and spleen, skin, lungs, thyroid and adrenal glands, lymph nodes, and blood vessels.
21698	The skin of the face, typically around the mouth, and the mucosa of the mouth and/or throat, as well as the tongue, swell up over the period of minutes to several hours. The swelling can also arise elsewhere, typically in the hands. This swelling can be quite itchy. There may also be slightly reduced sensation in the affected areas due to compression of the nerves. Urticaria (or hives) may occur simultaneously.
21699	Ataxias are marked by variable degrees of dysfunction and degeneration of systems involving motor coordination. The clinical presentation of hereditary ataxias can vary greatly, ranging from pure cerebellar ataxias to symptoms similar to multiple system atrophy or multi-organ disorders.
21700	Early symptoms of this disorder typically appear around ages 4-10, with gradual onset of vision problems, or seizures. There may be slowing head growth in the infantile form, poor circulation in lower extremities (legs and feet), curvature of the spine, decreased body fat and muscle mass, hyperventilation and/or breath-holding spells, constipation, and teeth grinding.
21701	The initial symptom is a condition known as prophyria. Those afflicted experience a range of symptoms including reddish-purple urine, light sensitivity of the skin, and attacks of acute abdominal/nerve pain. These symptoms manifest themselves differently in patients but can be triggered by dieting, infections, or hormonal changes. The use of alcohol and certain drugs such as barbiturates and birth control pills can also trigger these attacks
21702	With hereditary deafness, prelingual hearing loss is present before speech develops. All congenital hearing loss is prelingual, but not all prelingual hearing loss is necessarily congenital. On the other hand, postlingual hearing loss occurs after the development of normal speech.
21704	Patients experiencing hemolysis may have pallor, jaundice, or splenomegaly. Patients with severe neonatal HE or HPP may show signs of chronic anemia, such as frontal bossing, failure to thrive, and splenomegaly.
21705	Symptoms can be seen after an infant starts eating food or formula. The initial symptoms of fructose intolerance are similar to those of galactosemia. Other symptoms include conculsions, irritability, excessive sleepiness, jaundice, poor feeding as a baby, problems after eating fruits and fructose/sucrose-containing foods, and vomiting.
21706	Some people who test positive for hereditary hemochromatosis remain asymptomatic for life. Patients who do have symptoms may experience muscle aches and joint pain, primarily in the fingers, knees, hips, and ankles; chronic fatigue; depression, disorientation, or memory problems; stomach swelling, abdominal pain, diarrhea, or nausea; loss of body hair other than that on the scalp; premature menopause; gray or bronze skin similar to a suntan; diabetes; heart problems; enlarged liver; and an increased susceptibility to bacterial infections.
21707	HHT is marked by telangiectasia (small vascular malformations) on the skin and mucosal linings, epistaxis (nosebleeds), and arteriovenous malformations (AVMs) in various internal organs. Skin and mucosa telangiectasias are most pronounced on the tongue, hands/fingers, nose, lips, mouth/throat and conjunctiva.
21708	The symptoms of hereditary nonspherocytic hemolytic anemia include moderate anemia (which may cause tiredness), and a recurrent yellow appearance of the skin. The patient may also be pale and fatigued.
21709	Symptoms are typically the same as acute pancreatitis, including severe abdominal pain, vomiting, and diarrhea.
21710	The symptoms of the disease includes weakness of the lower legs, feet and ankles, flat feet, curled toes, and frequent tripping or falling. As the disease develops, reduced sensation and indifference to hot and cold temperature will be experienced.
21711	Though the primary feature of HSP is severe, progressive, lower extremity spasticity, in more progressed forms it can be accompanied by other neurological symptoms. These include optic neuropathy, retinopathy (diseases of the retina), ataxia (lack of muscle control), dementia, icthyosis (a skin disorder resulting in dry, rough, scaly skin), mental retardation, peripheral neuropathy, and deafness.
21712	As in non-hereditary spherocytosis, the spleen's hemolysis leads to observational symptoms of fatigue, pallor, and jaundice.
21713	Among the symptoms of these diseases are extreme muscle weakness, fatigue, and other degenerative conditions.
21714	Ocular findings in patients with the syndrome include the following: poor visual acuity, strabismus, refractive errors associated with "with the rule astigmatism," congenital nystagmus, prominent Schwalbe line, iris transillumination, foveal hypoplasia, and albinotic retinal midperiphery. A wide ocular phenotypic variety occurs in patients with the syndrome.
21715	Symptoms include: Ambiguous genitalia at birth; micropenis; clitoromegaly (an enlarged clitoris); partial labial fusion; apparently undescended testes (which may turn out to be ovaries) in boys; labial or inguinal (groin) masses -- which may turn out to be testes -- in girls; hypospadias (the opening of the penis is somewhere other than at the tip; in females, the urethra [urine canal] opens into the vagina); otherwise unusual appearing genitalia at birth; electrolyte abnormalities; delayed or absent puberty; and unexpected changes at puberty.
21716	A hernia may be likened to a failure in the sidewall of a pneumatic tire. The tire's inner tube act like an organ and the side wall like the body cavity wall providing the restraint. A weakness in the sidewall let a bulge to develop, which can become a split, allowing the inner tube to protrude, and leading to the eventual failure of the tire.
21717	The symptoms of hernia in children are visible lumps and swollen areas in the abdomen. Crying, coughing and straining usually aggravate the pain felt by the children.
21718	Inguinal hernia is asymptomatic, but some symptoms may arise, which includes: pain or discomfort in the groin, especially when bending over, coughing or lifting; a heavy or dragging sensation in the groin; or occasionally, in men, pain and swelling in the scrotum around the testicles when the protruding intestine descends into the scrotum.
21719	An umbilical hernia develops a soft swelling or bulge near the navel (umbilicus). The bulge may vary from less than one-half inch to about 2 inches (about 1 to 5 centimeters) in diameter. If the baby has an umbilical hernia, you may notice the bulge only when he or she cries, coughs or strains. The bulge may disappear when the baby is calm or lies on his or her back.
21720	When a herniated disc presses on nerve roots, it may cause pain, numbness, and weakness in the area of the body where the nerve travels. A herniated disc in the lower back can cause pain and numbness in the buttock and below the leg.
21721	This illness starts abruptly, typically with a fever. The fever is often high, and children usually lose their sparkle (and appetite) a few hours before the fever begins. The mouth sores typically begin at the same time as the fever or shortly afterward. Children have an average of about five blisters in the mouth. These blisters are surrounded by red rings and can appear in the back of the throat, on the roof of the mouth, on the tonsils, on the uvula, inside the cheeks, or on the tongue. The blisters may start as small red bumps and may develop to become ulcers after the blister stage.
21722	Infected people that show no visible symptoms may still shed and transmit virus through their skin, and this asymptomatic shedding may represent the most common form of HSV-2 transmission
21723	The symptoms of this autoimmune phenomenon include puritic rashes and lesions that develop in the abdomen. These papules soon burst in the labor periods of pregnancy or immediately after postpartum. About 10 percent of infants suffer effects of the disease.
21724	The symptoms of herpes eye infections are scarring of the cornea, vision loss and irritability of the eyes.
21725	The initial episode of herpes is worse than outbreaks that come later. The predominant symptom of herpes is the outbreak of painful, itching blisters filled with fluid on and around the external sexual organs or, for oral herpes, on or very near the patient's lip. Symptoms vaguely similar to those of flu may accompany these outbreaks, including fever, headache, fatigue, and muscle aches. There may be painful urination, and swollen and tender lymph glands in the groin area.
21726	Most individuals with HSE display a decrease in their level of consciousness and an altered mental state presenting as confusion and changes in personality. Increased numbers of white blood cells can be detected in their cerebrospinal fluid without the presence of pathogenic bacteria and fungi, and they typically have a fever. Some patients with HSE will undergo seizures.
21727	The signs and symptoms of genital herpes may include small, red bumps, blisters (vesicles) or open sore (ulcers) in the genital, anal and nearby areas and as well as pain or itching around the genital area, inner thighs and buttocks. Itching or pain beginning within a few weeks after exposure to an infected sexual partner is the initial symptom of genital herpes. Small, red bumps may appear after several days. They will then rupture becoming ulcers that ooze or bleed and eventually, scabs form and the ulcers heal.
21728	Increased sensitivity, itching, burning, or tingling sensation that may occur about 2 days before lesions appear are warning symptoms of herpes simplex virus, orofacial. Further symptoms include small blisters (vesicles) filled with clear yellowish fluid, mild fever and skin lesions or rash around the lips, gums and mouth.
21729	Sacral herpes simplex are commonly found in the right or left buttock, lower back or both buttocks. In women, other locations for the herpes simplex virus infections include around the anus, vagina, external genitalia, labia majora and minora and the cervix. In men, other locations for the herpes simplex virus infections include the scrotum, head and shaft of penis, around the anus, buttocks and thighs.
21730	Clinically, lytic activation is often accompanied by emergence of non-specific symptoms such as low grade fever, sore throat, malaise, headache, and rash as well as clinical signs such as swollen or tender lymph nodes and immunological findings such as reduced levels of natural killer cells.
21731	The initial symptoms of herpes zoster, which include headache, fever, and malaise, are nonspecific, and may lead to an incorrect diagnosis. These symptoms are commonly followed by sensations of itching, burning pain, and hypersensitivity. These sensations are often described as stinging, aching, tingling, numbing or throbbing, and can be interspersed with quick stabs of agonizing pain. In most cases, after 1-2 days (but sometimes even as long as 3 weeks) the initial phase is followed by the addition of the characteristic skin rash.
21732	Patients with herpes zoster oticus may experience hearing loss, vertigo, tinnitus, dry mouth and dry eyes, facial paralysis, and loss of taste.
21733	The earliest sign of active viral replication in the corneal epithelium are small, raised, clear vesicles that are analogous to the vesicular eruptions seen in mucocutaneous herpes infection elsewhere in the body. These infectious epithelial vesicles are rarely detected or recognized during a patient's first presentation. However, in patients with a known history of HSV keratitis, infectious epithelial vesicles may be observed even without any clinical symptoms.
21734	The thumb, index finger or the other fingers are the most common locations for herpetic whitlow. The infected area develops tingling, burning and pain approximately 2-20 days after initial exposure to the herpes simplex virus. The finger becomes red and swollen over the next week or 2, where the blisters usually rupture and scab over, leading to complete healing after an additional 2 weeks. The other signs and symptoms occasionally associated with the infection of herpetic whitlow include red streaks radiating from the finger (lymphangitis), fever and swollen lymph nodes in the elbow or underarm area.
21735	Symptoms of heterophobia include breathlessness, dizziness, excessive sweating, nausea, dry mouth, feeling sick, shaking, inability to speak or think clearly, heart palpitations, a fear of dying, becoming mad or losing control, a sensation of detachment from reality or a full blown anxiety attack.
21736	Most affected patients display some symptoms, such as lethargy, vomiting, ataxia or chroeoathetosis, impaired growth and delayed development. Mild to profound mental retardation is usually evident by childhood. Over time, patients will gravitate to a diet low in milk and meat during their childhood.
21737	The symptoms have acid reflux, and pain, similar to heartburn, in the chest and upper stomach. Hernia symptoms are severe and chronic acid reflux is involved, surgery is commonly recommended, as chronic reflux can severely injure the esophagus and even lead to esophageal cancer. Most of the patient's hiatus hernias due to no symptoms. Usually patients experience heartburn and regurgitation, when stomach acid refluxes back into the esophagus.
21738	Symptoms of hiccups are contraction of diaphragm and a constant "hic "sound from the throat.
21739	Hidradenitis suppurativa is a chronic skin inflammation characterized by the presence of blackheads and one or more red, tender bumps (lesions). The lesions usually enlarge, break open and drain pus. Scarring may occur after several occurrences.
21740	Among the symptoms of high altitude cerebral edema are dizziness, a light feeling towards high altitudes, palpitations, shortness of breath and hypoxia, the inability of a person to inhale oxygen via the normal respiration process.
21741	One who suffers from high altitude pulmonary edema experiences panting, shortness of breath, paleness of skin as well as headaches while going to higher elevations.
21742	Elevated cholesterol does not lead to specific symptoms unless it has been longstanding. Several types of hypercholesterolemia lead to specific physical findings: xanthoma (thickening of tendons due to accumulation of cholesterol), xanthelasma palpabrum (yellowish patches around the eyelids) and arcus senilis (white discoloration of the peripheral cornea).
21743	The most typical scenario is the pediatrician detecting a "hip click" during routine post-natal checkup. Actually, a "clunk", rather than a "click" is detected in the unstable hip, but it needs experience to tell a "clunk" from a "click". In the older infant, the pediatrician may suspect the problem if the child has tight hip adductors, which is when he has a hard time spreading the baby's hips. He may also notice that the skin creases around the groin or the buttocks are assymmetrical, or the legs may appear to be of different lengths.
21744	Many hip labral tears often cause no detectable signs or symptoms. Occasionally, however, the person may experience some clicking, locking or a catching sensation in the hip joint, pain in the groin and hip area as well as stiffness or the limited motion of the hip.
21745	In newborns, signs may include: failure to pass stool within the first or second day of life; vomiting, including vomiting a green liquid called bile - a digestive fluid produced in the liver; constipation or gas, which may make a newborn fussy; and diarrhea
21746	The major sign of hirsutism is coarse and pigmented body hair, occuring on places of the body where hair is not commonly found in women - primarily the face, chest and back. If hirsutism is caused by excessively high androgen levels, other signs may be noticed, such as: a deepening voice, balding, acne, decreased breat size, enlargement of the clitoris, and incerased muscle mass.
21747	Though it may remain asymptomatic for a few years, symptoms will typically present by early childhood. Common symptoms include hyperactivity, developmental delay, speech impediment, learning difficulties, and sometimes mental retardation.
21748	Adult symptoms include: cough; shortness of breath; chest pain, fever; weight loss; general discomfort, uneasiness or ill feeling (malaise); increased amount or urine output; thirst and increased drinking of fluids; bone pain; and rash.
21749	Most affected individuals have clinically-silent manifestations and show no obvious ill effects. The acute phase of histoplasmosis is marked by non-specific respiratory symptoms, often cough or flu-like. Chest X-ray findings are normal in most cases. Chronic histoplasmosis cases can be similar to tuberculosis; disseminated histoplasmosis affects multiple organ systems and is fatal unless treated.
21750	The symptoms include: constant seeking of reassurance or approval; excessive dramatics with exaggerated displays of emotions; excessive sensitivity to criticism or disapproval; inappropriately seductive appearance or behavior.; excessive concern with physical appearance; a need to be the center of attention (self-centeredness); low tolerance for frustration or delayed gratification; rapidly shifting emotional states that may appear shallow to others; opinions are easily influenced by other people, but difficult to back up with details; tendency to believe that relationships are more intimate than they actually are; making rash decisions; and threatening or attempting suicide to get attention.
21751	Hives appear as small rounded welts that form rings or appear as large patches on the skin. These welts are usually itchy and may appear to be surrounded by a red flare, appearing in batches. Other signs of this skin disorder include swelling of the skin, large welts that can appear in the hands, feet and even in the genitalia as well as inside the throat.
21752	Hoarding affects thoughts, emotions, and behavior. Signs and symptoms of hoarding may include: Inability to discard item; acquiring unneeded or seemingly useless items; keeping stacks of newspapers, magazines or junk mail; saving trash or used food containers; cluttered living spaces; impairment of daily activities; procrastination; trouble making decisions; perfectionism; difficulty organizing items; forming attachments to possessions rather than people; restricting others from touching or borrowing possessions.
21753	Signs and symptoms of laryngitis can include hoarseness, weak voice or voice loss, tickling sensation and rawness of the throat, sore throat, dry throat, dry cough, anf difficulty breathing in children.
21754	Hodgkin's disease symptoms may include: painless swelling of lymph nodes in the neck, armipits, or groin; persistent fatigue; fever and chills; night sweats; unexplained weight loss, as much as 10% of the total body weight; loss of appetite; and itching.
21755	The signs and symptoms of holocarboxylase synthetase deficiency generally appear within the first few months of life, but the age of onset varies. Affected infants often have a hard time feeding, breathing problems, a skin rash, hair loss (alopecia), and a lack of energy (lethargy). Immediate treatment and lifelong management with biotin supplements may prevent several of these complications. If left untreated, the disorder can result to delayed development, seizures, and coma. These medical problems may be life-threatening in a few cases.
21756	Symptoms of holoprosencephaly vary from mild (no facial/organ defects, anosmia, or only a single central incisor) to moderate (cleft lip or palate) to severe (synophthalmia proboscis or cyclopia).
21757	Defects in the bones of the hand and/or arm are always evident. They may affect either or both sides of the body. Typically, there are defects in the carpal bones of the wrist and in the bones of the thumb. The thumb may be misshapen or even absent. In some severe cases of Holt-Oram syndrome, the arms may be very short in length so that the hands are attached close to the body (called phocomelia).
21758	Some symptoms of homocystinuria include: nearsightedness, flush across the cheeks, tall and thin build, long limbs, high arched feet, knock-knees, pectus excavatum, pectus carinatum, mental retradation, psychiatric disease, eye anomalies, ectopia lentis, myopia, glaucoma, optic atrophy, seizure, and extensive atheroma formation at a young age.
21759	There are no specific symptoms or signs of hookworm infection. They only arise from a combination of intestinal inflammation and progressive iron/protein-deficiency anemia. Larval invasion of the skin could give rise to intense, local itching, usually on the foot or lower leg, which can be followed by lesions that look like insect bites, can blister ("ground itch"), and last for a week or more.
21760	Most sties typically fill with pus and then rupture. The release of pus produces one major symptom of sties - pain. Usually the sty then goes away. Symptoms of sties include: pain, a red lump similar to a boil or a pimple; swelling in the eyelid; light sensitivity; a scratchy sensation in the eye; and tearing.
21761	Horn Kolb syndrome is characterized by the absence of hands and feet.
21762	Signs found in all patients on affected side of face include dilation lag, ptosis (drooping upper eyelid from loss of sympathetic innervation to the Mⁿller muscle), upside-down ptosis (slight elevation of the lower lid), and miosis (constricted pupil). Enophthalmos (the impression that the eye is sunk in) and anhidrosis reduced sweating) on the affected side of the face, loss of ciliospinal reflex and blood shot conjunctiva may occur depending on the site of lesion.
21763	The central part of the kidney ends up inferior to the inferior mesenteric artery, since its embryological ascent is arrested by its presence. This is the most common type of fusion anomaly occurring in the kidneys. Persons affected by this disease may suffer from nausea, abdominal discomfort, kidney stones and urinary tract infections.
21764	Hot flashes are a symptom of other medical conditions. It is characterized by warm, sudden, and rather annoying warmth at random times of the day.
21765	Depending on the type of infection, the signs and symptoms of folliculitis may vary. Pus-filled blisters that break open and crust over, clusters of small red bumps that develop around hair follicles and itchiness or tenderness are among the signs and symptoms in forms of the disorder that affect the upper part of the hair follicle. Affecting the entire hair follicle, deep folliculitis starts deeper in the skin surrounding and its signs and symptoms include possible scars once the infection clears, a large swollen bump of mass, pus-filled blisters that break open and crust over and as well as pain.
21766	Some symptoms of Howel-Evans syndrome include hyperkeratosis of palms, hyperkeratosis of the soles of the feet, and esophageal cancer.
21767	Some symptoms of HPV include: genital warts, pre-malignant genital lesions, oral and upper respiratory lesions, cervical cancer and other tumors, common warts, plantar warts, and flat warts.
21768	Classic outbreaks of genital herpes happen as a series of skin changes over seven to ten days. Tingling, numbness or itching is the initial sign of an outbreak for some people, and the skin overlying the area often looks normal. A group of small, painful blisters then appears on the skin, and the surrounding skin will usually become red. The blisters often join together and burst, leaving an ulcer or sore. These ulcers become crusted and form a scab. When the crust falls away from the skin, there is often a small patch of redness which fades over a few days. During recurrences, people may suffer from pain around the site. The skin might sometimes feel numb or prickly (like when you get 'pins and needles'). Occasionally, there may be more uncommon symptoms, such as back pain, or flu-like symptoms.
21769	The symptoms of the disease include pregnancy-related complications, deep vein thrombosis at the lower extremities, low platelet count, heart valve disease, and strokes.
21771	The symptoms of Human Granulocytic Ehrlichiosis (HGE) may include a sudden high fever, chills, headache, muscle aches (myalgia), and a general feeling of weakness and fatigue (malaise) within a week or so after initial infection. In majority of the cases, abnormal laboratory findings may occur including an abnormally low number of circulating blood platelets (thrombocytopenia), a decrease in white blood cells (leukopenia), and an abnormal increase in the level of certain liver enzymes (hepatic transaminases). In some cases, symptoms may develop to include nausea, vomiting, cough, diarrhea, loss of appetite (anorexia), and/or confusion.
21772	Unnerving sensation of tickling Irritability Extreme itching and red, small bumps Lice found in the scalp Lice eggs found in the hair shafts
21773	The symptoms of HIV differ, depending on the phase of infection. When first infected with HIV, there may be no symptoms at all, although it's more common to develop a brief flu-like illness two to six weeks after becoming infected. But because the signs and symptoms of an initial infection - which may include fever, headache, sore throat, swollen lymph glands and rash - are similar to those of other diseases, the person might not realize he's been infected with HIV.
21774	Some symptoms of HPV include: genital warts, pre-malignant genital lesions, oral and upper respiratory lesions, cervical cancer and other tumors, common warts, plantar warts, and flat warts.
21775	Infection with Human Parvovirus B19 is marked by a petechial (causing small bruise-like eruptions) rash similar to the skin lesions seen in Sweet's syndrome or erythema multiforme. This rash appears in a "glove and stocking" distribution in the pattern of a lace-like or reticular rash covering the trunk; another finding is a characteristic reddening of the cheeks referred to as a "slapped cheek" sign. Other symptoms of infection include a systemic lupus-like syndrome of arthritis, mucosal ulcers of the mouth and/or genital tract, edema, uveitis, fever, joint pain, muscle weakness, and purpura or bruising of the lower extremities.
21776	Most often its symptoms are not evident though it includes myelopathy and leg muscle symptoms.
21777	Symptoms of hunchback includes: slouching posture or hunchback, mild back pain, spinal stiffness or tenderness, and fatigue. In mild cases, hunchback may produce no noticeable signs of symptoms.
21778	Tremor usually starts locally in one extremity and spreads gradually, eventually involving the entire voluntary motor system. Legs are disturbed less frequently than arms. Other features include unsteady gait, errors in estimating the range, direction, and force of voluntary movements, asthenia, muscular hypotonia, and adiadochokinesia are associated.
21779	Signs and symptoms of MPS II A include: a decline in development, which usually appears between ages 1 1/2 and 3, followed by a progressive loss of skills; coarse facial features, including thickening of the lips, tongue and nostrils; abnormal bone size or shape and other skeletal irregularities; enlarged internal organs, such as the liver and spleen, resulting in a distended abdomen; and respiratory difficulties including sleep apnea, a condition in which breathing intermittently stops during sleep. Signs and symptoms of MPS II B include: abnormal bone size or shape and other skeletal irregularities, but less severe than in MPS II A; somewhat stunted growth; poor peripheral vision; and joint stiffness.
21780	An affected individual experiences changes in his or her personality, a decrease in cognitive abilities as well as uncontrolled movements, and mental deterioration. The person may also demonstrate irritability, anger, or some signs of depression. These signs and symptoms often develop in middle age. However, the condition is usually severe in younger people with symptoms progressing rapidly.
21781	Most people with Huntington's Disease eventually show jerky, random, and uncontrollable movements called chorea, although some exhibit very slow movement and stiffness (bradykinesia, dystonia). These abnormal movements are initially exhibited as general lack of coordination and an unsteady gait and slowly increase as the disease progresses; this eventually causes problems with loss of facial expression (called "masks in movement") or exaggerated facial gestures, inability to sit or stand stably, speech, chewing and swallowing (Dysphagia) which commonly causes weight loss.
21782	The condition is characterized by progressive deterioration, hepatosplenomegaly, dwarfism and gargoyle-like faces. There is a progressive mental retardation, with death most often occurring by the age of 10 years. Affected children may be quite big at birth and appear normal but may have inguinal or umbilical (where the umbilical cord passes through the abdomen) hernias. Growth in height may be faster than normal at first, then begins to slow before the end of the first year and often ends around age 3. Many children develop a short body trunk and a maximum stature of not more than 4 feet. Distinct facial features (including flat face, depressed nasal bridge, and bulging forehead) become more obvious in the second year. Children may suffer from noisy breathing and recurring upper respiratory tract and ear infections. Feeding may be difficult for some children, and many suffer from periodic bowel problems.
21783	Symptoms of Hurthle cell cancer may not be necessarily evident at the early stage of the disease. The most common clinical presentation of Hurthle call cancer is the appearance of a rapidly growing nodule or lump in the patient's neck. The lump may form slightly below the Adam's apple. In addition, Hurthle cell cancer typically presents with pain in the neck and throat, and sometimes in the ears as well. Affected patients may also experience shortness of breath, difficulty swallowing, hoarseness or other distinct changes in the voice, as well as a persistent cough that is not related to any respiratory infection.
21784	Signs of Hutchinson incisors are: teeth notched on biting surface; tooth sides taper; smaller than normal and more widely spaced; upper central incisors most often affected; and permanent teeth affected rather than deciduous teeth.
21785	The earliest symptoms include failure to thrive and a localized scleroderma-like skin condition. As the child grows past infancy, additional conditions become apparent. Limited growth, alopecia, and a distinctive appearance with small face and jaw and pinched nose all are associated with progeria. The people diagnosed with this disease usually have small, fragile bodies like those of aged people. Later the condition leads to wrinkled skin, atherosclerosis and cardiovascular problems.
21786	Symptoms of the hydatid disease can imitate those of that with cancer of the liver and liver of the cirrhosis. Evident symptoms are not also seen only after ten to twenty years for the reason that the cysts grow slowly. When the cysts appears an individual may experience stomach ache, weakness, weight loss and other symptoms are itching, blood in the stools, coughing, pain in the chest and fever.
21787	Molar pregnancies typically present with painless vaginal bleeding in the fourth to fifth month of pregnancy. The uterus may be bigger than expected, or the ovaries may be enlarged. There may also be increased vomiting than would be expected (hyperemesis). Sometimes there is a raise in blood pressure along with protein in the urine. Blood tests will show extremely high levels of human chorionic gonadotropin (hCG).
21788	As already noted, Echinococcus infection causes large cysts to appear in intermediate hosts. Disease symptoms occur as the cysts grow bigger and start eroding and/or putting pressure on blood vessels and organs. Large cysts can also result to shock if they happen to rupture. Infection with E granulosus, common in Mediterranean countries, usually results in the formation of hydatid cysts in the liver, lungs, kidney and spleen of the intermediate host. In echography or CT scans, hydatid cysts are typically large with a flaky appearance (this is referred to as "hydatid sand"); this indicates the first stage of infection. In the second stage, medical imaging may exhibit multiple daughter cysts. Hydatid cyst of liver can be precisely diagnosed by a serologic assay. However, this is falsely negative in as many as 50% of people with cysts. Eosinophilia is not a feature of cysts unless rupture happens. In fact, often, there are no changes in blood biochemistry.
21789	An infant with hydranencephaly may appear normal at birth, and the infant's head size and spontaneous reflexes (such as sucking, swallowing, crying, and moving the arms and legs) may all seem normal. After a few weeks, however, the infant usually becomes irritable and has increased muscle tone. After a few months of life, seizures and hydrocephalus (excessive accumulation of cerebrospinal fluid in the brain) may arise. Other symptoms may include visual impairment, deafness, lack of growth, blindness, spastic quadriparesis (paralysis), and intellectual deficits.
21790	Generally the only indication of a hydrocele is a painless swelling of one or both testicles.
21791	Symptoms of raised intracranial pressure may include headaches, vomiting, nausea, papilledema, sleepiness, or coma. Heightened intracranial pressure may result in uncal and/or cerebellar tonsill herniation, with resulting life threatening brain stem compression.
21792	Infants with hydrocephalus often grow an abnormally large skull that is filled with water. Children also experience chills, fever and other complications brought about by the disease.
21793	The signs and symptoms of hydronephrosis largely depends upon whether the obstruction is acute or chronic. Unilateral hydronephrosis may even arise without symptoms. Blood tests can show increased creatinine and electrolyte imbalance. Urinalysis may exhibit an elevated pH due to the secondary destruction of nephrons within the affected kidney. Symptoms that appear regardless of where the obstruction lies include loin or flank pain. An enlarged kidney can be palpable on examination.
21794	Symptoms of hydrophobia include breathlessness, dizziness, excessive sweating, nausea, dry mouth, feeling sick, shaking, heart palpitations, inability to speak or think clearly, a fear of dying or losing control, a sensation of detachment from reality or a full blown anxiety attack.
21795	The fetus may display the following symptoms: twinning, hydramnios, exanthem or other evidence of intercurrent viral illness, herpetic lesion or chancre, and decrease in fetal movements.
21796	Persons with the said illness usually suffer from headache, progressive pain in the limbs, numbness, and eventually, clumsiness in reaching and handling objects. Walking difficulties also occur.
21797	Patients with this disease usually feel pain and tenderness in the affected area, particularly in the shoulders and the back. This inflammation is associated with arthritis.
21798	It is not clear whether hymenolepiasis necessarily has any symptoms. The symptoms of hymenolepiasis are traditionally described as abdominal pain, irritability, loss of appetite (anorexia), itching around the anus, and diarrhea. However, in one study of 25 patients conducted in Peru, effective treatment of the infection made no significant difference to symptoms. Some authorities report that heavily infected cases are more probable to be symptomatic
21799	The signs of that the disease has taken place include scoliosis, recurrent fractures and sometimes, scoliosis. Some patients do not lose their baby teeth and bear two sets of teeth as they grow up. Facial, dental bone deformities also develop.
21800	The syndrome has several symptoms including chills, fever, diarrhea, vomiting, headache, abdominal pain, red spots on skin, lymph gland swelling in neck, and high IgD level.
21801	Men and women with compulsive sexual behavior may be married or in a committed relationship and seem to live otherwise normal lives. In reality, they typically have trouble establishing and maintaining emotional intimacy. They seek gratification through sexual behavior, but are not likely to achieve emotional fulfillment and their lives may feel empty. Compulsive sexual behavior can affect most anyone regardless of sexual preferences, including heterosexual, homosexual and bisexual preferences.
21802	Individuals suffering from hyperadrenalism typically show rapid weight gain, specifically of the trunk and face but excluding the limbs, resulting in central obesity. A round face (known in pop lingo as "moon face"), excessive perspiration, and dilation of capillaries (or telangiectasia) are also signs of this disorder. Additionally, hyperadrenalism patients show susceptibility to easy bruising (skin thinning). A number of reddish or purple striae appear on the upper body, buttocks, limbs or breasts. The hip and shoulder (proximal) muscles also become weak, plus patients may also demonstrate facial male-pattern hair growth (known as hirsutism). Another common symptom is the development of fat pads near the collar bone and at the back of the neck (or lipodystrophy). In addition, excessive cortisol levels may affect the endocrine systems, thus causing insomnia, decreased libido, impotence in men, amenorrhoea and even infertility. Psychological disturbances, from mild euphoria to extreme pyschosis, are also common. Most huperadrenalism patients exhibit depression and anxiety.
21803	Hyperaldosteronism may be asymptomatic; i.e. patients may not demonstrate any signs or symptoms of this defect. However, in most known cases, the following can occur: fatigue, headaches, high blood pressure, intermittent or temporary paralysis, hypokalemia, muscle spasms and weakness, numbness, polydipsia, polyuria, and tingling sensation, among others.
21804	In general, hyperammonemia patients show poor physical growth and hypothermia. Head, ears, eyes, nose, and throat infections may be present in cases where cerebral edema and high intracranial pressure have occurred. Hyperammonemia may also result in several pulmonary problems; including tachypnea or hyperpnea, as well as apnea and respiratory failure in late stages. In additional, abdominal disorders may also occur. Particularly evident are neurologic symptoms - including poor limb coordination, dysdiadochokinesia, hypertonia, ataxia, intermittent tremors and seizures, lethargy, as well as decorticate or decerebrate posturing.
21805	Primary symptoms of hyperandrogenism in women include weight problems, disruptive ovulation or menstrual cycle, as well as excessive amounts of androgenic hormones. Hyperandrogenism can manifest in females of any age - from young children to menopausal adults. In most cases, symptoms may escape diagnoses for several years. Mild and transient symptoms commonly occur in adolescent females, including acne or hyperseborrhea. Most hyperandrogenism patients have irregular menstrual periods. In general, infertility results from a lack of ovulation. Women with this disorder may also experience pain during intercourse, a phenomenon known as dyspareunia. Hirsutism or excessive male-pattern body hair, as well as Androgenic alopecia or male-pattern baldness, can also occur. In addition, dark brownish patches of skin (Acanthosis nigricans) may appear as a sign of insulin resistance. Tiny flaps of skin known as Acrochordons may also be visible. In some cases, prolonged mood swings, pelvic pain, backaches, and even depression can occur.
21806	A distinctive yellow coloring of the infant's skin, starting from the face and progressing to the lower part of the body, is often indicative of hyperbilirubinemia. Another telltale sign is lethargy in the infant or difficulties in feeding.
21807	Fatigue, depression, anorexia, confusion, vomiting and nausea, constipation, pancreatitis, or increased urination may result from hypercalcaemia. In pop culture, the saying "Bones, stones, groans, and psychic moans" has helped popularize this disorder's symptoms. Chronic hypercalcaemia may cause urinary calculi, more commonly known as renal stones or bladder stones. In extreme cases, abnormal heart rhythms can occur. EKG findings of a short QT interval and a widened T wave are indicative of hypercalcaemia. Severe hypercalcaemia, occurring at excessively high calcium serum levels, may result in coma and cardiac arrest. At this point, the disorder is considered a medical emergency.
21808	High cholesterol levels do not necessarily manifest adverse symptoms, unless such excess has been occurring for long periods. Some physical signs of hypercholesterolemia include: thickening of the tendons (known as xanthoma), appearance of yellowish patches around the eyelids (known as xanthelasma palpabrum), and even white discoloration of the peripheral cornea (arcus senilis). Longstanding hypercholesterolemia frequently results in accelerated atherosclerosis, which, in turn, can present in a range of cardiovascular symptoms, including: chest pain on exertion (angina pectoris), mini strokes or transient ischemic attacks, heart attaches (myocardial infarction), major strokes, and peripheral artery disease.
21810	Some symptoms of hypercortisolism include: moon face (round, red, and full); buffalo hump (a collection of fat between the shoulders); central obesity with protruding abdomen and thin extremities; weight gain; weakness; backache; headache; acne or superficial skin infections; thin skin with easy bruising; thirst; increased urination; purple striations on the skin of the abdomen, thighs, and breasts; mental changes; impotence or cessation of menses; and facial hair growth.
21811	The most common signs of the disease are uncontrollable vomiting, nausea and morning sickness.
21812	Since the syndrome affects several organs all at one time, symptoms can be numerous. Several possible indications of the disease include skin lesions, cardiomyopthy, neuropathy, pulmonary disease, neuropathy, thromboembolic disease, reduced size of the ventricle, and hepatosplenomegaly.
21813	Manifestations of the disorder include hypertonia or stiffness, strong brain-stern reactions, exaggerated startle reaction, and even epilepsy in some cases. The stiffness is evident with limb flexion that disappears during sleep and diminishing over time. Startle reflex may sometimes come with sudden stiffness.
21814	It's important to recognize signs of the condition, as untreated hyperglycemia can become an emergency condition known as ketoacidosis. Early symptoms of the condition include increased thirst, blurred vision, headaches, difficulty concentrating, weight loss, frequent urination, and fatigue. When there's prolonged hyperglycemia, symptoms can include skin and vaginal infections, decreased vision, slow healing wounds and cuts, intestinal and stomach problems, and nerve damage that causes painful cold feet or insensitive feet, and hair loss on lower extremities.
21815	The signs and symptoms of this syndrome are frequent urination, dark-colored urine and thirstiness. The condition is common among older persons, especially those with type 1 or type 2 diabetes. Hallucinations and high blood sugar levels are also present.
21816	Symptoms for the disorder vary depending on the type and severity. Most affected individuals have the classic form or neonatal form, which presents itself in first several days from birth with signs of hypotonia, myoclonic jerks, lethargy, and progresses to aptea, and even death. Other symptoms may include seizures, mental retardation, chorea, vertical gaze palsy, and others.
21817	The main symptom of this disorder is excessive 'wetness' or sweating. The condition may be localized in specific body parts or may be generalized. Feet, hands, groin, and axillae parts are among the very active perspiration regions due to comparatively high sweat glands concentration.
21818	Affected individuals are usually asymptomatic till the start of a premature arterial disorder later life. Common symptoms include thrombosis, abnormalities of blood vessels, bone loss, and atherosclerosis. Less common symptoms include mental retardation in severe cases.
21820	The condition may be asymptomatic, which means it won't have symptoms. However, some affected individuals report slight symptoms that include fatigue, nausea, tingling sensations, and muscle weakness. More severe symptoms will include weak pulse and slow heartbeat.
21821	Hyperkalemic Periodic Paralysis is considered rare in humans, but documented cases include symptoms of extreme muscle weakness. The weakening of the muscles often begins in the second decade and either progresses or stabilizes in the fourth to fifth decade. The progression, however, depends largely on the type and severity of the disorder. HYPP affected patients usually have elevated potassium levels in their blood during attacks, though these levels appear normal in some cases. Absorption or ingestion of potassium can often cause attacks in affected patients, even if blood potassium remains normal. Muscle strength tends to improve between intervals of attacks, but affected patients may experience episodes of muscle weakness as the disease progresses. It is also not uncommon for HYPP affected individuals to feel muscle stiffness and spasms (myotonia) in the affected areas.
21822	Among the signs of the disease are electrolyte abnormalities. Most symptoms are not noticeable, as side from random episodes of bone pain or calculus formation.
21823	Hyperlexic children will have a precocious ability to read but will learn to speak only by rote and heavy repetition, and may also have difficulty learning the rules of language from examples or from trial and error, which may result in social problems.
21825	The symptoms of hypermagnesemia include weakness, vomiting, difficulty in breathing, hypotension, chest pains. Hypermagnesemia occurs together with hypoglycemia and hyperglycemia.
21826	The signs and symptoms of menorrhagia may include: menstrual flow that soaks through one or more sanitary pads or tampons every hour for several consecutive hours; the need to use double sanitary protection to control menstrual flow; the need to change sanitary protection during the night; menstrual periods lasting longer than seven days; menstrual flow that includes large blood clots; heavy menstrual flow that interferes with regular lifestyle; constant pain in the lower abdomen during menstrual periods; and tiredness, fatigue or shortness of breath (symptoms of anemia).
21827	People with hypermobility syndrome usually suffer from pain and stiffness whenever they use the body parts in which double joints are present. The disease can also contribute further complications in conditions such as GERD, flat feet, and idiopathic scoliosis.
21828	Patients suffering from hypernatremia include headache, dizziness, edema and lethargy. Severe cases of the condition may lead to coma and eventual death.
21829	People with hyperopia can experience blurred vision, accommodative dysfunction, asthenopia, binocular dysfunction, amblyopia, and strabismus. The person may also experience general eye discomfort or a headache after a prolonged interval of doing close tasks, such as reading, writing, or drawing.
21830	The initial indications of the condition can appear at any point in time, starting from birth to an individual's early adulthood. The symptoms can vary from subtle to severe. Depending on severity, initial sign is usually kidney stones. The presence of kidney stones will include symptoms like blood in urine, sudden or severe abdominal pain, chills and fever, pain during urination, and urge for frequent urination.
21831	Several hyperthyroidism patients may be asymptomatic, and in such cases, diagnosis can only be made with a coincidental discovery of hypercalcemia. Symptomatic hyperparathyroidism, on the other hand, presents with a variety of symptoms, most of which are closely correlated with elevated calcium levels in the blood. Most of these symptoms have neurological origins; the most common of which being fatigue and exhaustion. Other hallmark signs include memory problems, a distinct lack of energy, difficulty concentrating, depression, and even problems with sleeping. Hyperthyroidism may also manifest through kidney stones and pain in the skeletal system (often bone pain that results from osteoporosis). In pop culture, hyperparathyroidism symptoms have been summed up in the following line: "moans, groans, stones, bones, and psychiatric overtones". "Moans" roughly translates to not feeling well; "groans" often means abdominal pain; "stones" indicate kidney problems; "bones" literally means pain in the bones; and finally, "psychiatric overtones" refer to lethargy, memory problems, fatigue, and depression. Other demonstrated symptoms include headaches, gastroesophageal reflux, low libido, thinning hair, hypertension, and heart palpitations. Others have also complained of an increase in thirst, stomach ulcers, nausea, and appetite loss.
21832	Among the signs and symptoms of post-inflammatory hyperpigmentation is one or more areas of darker brown or sometimes red-brown discoloration. Its appearance may vary in shape, size and location depending upon the cause of the skin injury. Insect bites, burns, cuts, or scrapes often affect exposed areas on the legs and arms while acne tends to leave light to dark brown spots on the trunk or face.
21833	The symptoms of the condition include headaches, double vision, excessive sweating, hoarseness, sleep apnea and muscle weakness.
21834	Among females, elevated levels of proclatin in the blood result in hypoestrogenism, along with a decrease in menstruation and anovulatory infertility. Affected women may experience a decrease or a total disappearance of their menstruation, or a change in their menstrual cycles. In some cases, females who are not pregnant or nursing may inexplicably start producing breast milk. Some patients report losing interest in sex (lowered libido) or experiencing pain during intercourse due to vaginal dryness. Among men, common signs of hyperprolactinemia are loss of libido, infertility, and erectile dysfunction. Males have no visible indicators like menstrual changes. As a result, they often delay consulting a physician until they start experiencing headaches and eye problems as the enlarged pituitary puts pressure on nearby eye nerves. Additionally, hyperprolactinaemia can develop to osteoporosis as a result of hypoestrogenism,
21835	Hyperprolinemia is passed on through a hereditary pattern called autosomal recessive. Hence, children with both parents carrying the mutated gene are very likely to suffer from the condition too.
21837	Men and women with compulsive sexual behavior may be married or in a committed relationship and seem to live otherwise normal lives. In reality, they typically have trouble establishing and maintaining emotional intimacy. They seek gratification through sexual behavior, but are not likely to achieve emotional fulfillment and their lives may feel empty. Compulsive sexual behavior can affect most anyone regardless of sexual preferences, including heterosexual, homosexual and bisexual preferences.
21838	Among the symptoms of the condition are headache, dizziness, slow speech, weakness, restlessness, appetite loss and excessive sleepiness during the day. Naps taken do not provide any relief from the experienced ailments.
21839	Among the most common symptoms of hypertension include dizziness, blurred vision, headaches, palpitations, chest pains. Hypertension is often reffered to as on eof the silent killers as symptoms are not quite obvious allowning it to develop unnoticed until it creates other serious complications.
21840	Each woman may experience symptoms differently. Symptoms may include: increased blood pressure, protein in the urine, edema (swelling), sudden weight gain, visual changes such as blurred or double vision, nausea and vomiting, right-sided upper abdominal pain or pain around the stomach, urinating small amounts, and changes in liver or kidney function tests.
21841	Among the symptoms of hypertensive heart disease are fatigue, irregular heartbeat, swelling of feet, weight gain, nausea, dyspnea and frequent urges to urinate at night.
21842	Patients afflicted with hypertensive retinopathy may not exhibit any visual cues. However, a decreased vision or repeated headaches may be indicative of retinal damage. Arteriosclerotic changes, such as bilateral arteriolar narrowing, may also pinpoint hypertensive retinopathy. Other symptoms include ischemic changes, hemorrhages, edema around the retina, papilledema, and visual acuity loss.
21843	Among the most common symptoms that can be associated with hyperthermia includes headache, significant drop in the patient's blood pressure, fainting spells and dizziness, dilation of the blood vessels, convulsions, fever and temporary blindness.
21844	Among the major clinical symptoms of hyperthyroidism includes loss of weight, anxiety, fatigue, heat, apathy, irritability, depression, palpitations, sweating, nausea and vomiting. For many patients with sever cases, there is also a significant increase in the body temperature, which when left unattended can lead to death ort comatose.
21845	The disorder is characterized by hair growing all over the body except the hands and feet. In some cases hair growth develops rapidly even before puberty stage. Aside from this, people with the disorder have no other internal organ problems.
21846	Symptoms of HCM are variable. Most afflicted patients are either asymptomatic or demonstrate only mild symptoms. Common signs of hypertrophic cardiomyopathy are shortness of breath (dyspnea), angina or chest pains, heart palpitations, lightheadedness, fainting, fatigue, and sudden cardiac death. Usually, HCM symptoms mimic the signs of congestive heart failure, but treatment is very different between the two. Risk for sudden death in HCM patients are stronger in young age groups (30 years old and below).
21847	The vertical miscoordination of the eyes may cause strabismic amblyopia due to the suppression of the deviating eye. A cosmetic defect is often evident at an early age. Face turn is also affected, dependent on the presence of binocular vision in a specific gaze. Diplopia or double vision may develop in adults. A cyclotorsional deviation of the eyes (or a rotation around the visual axis) is also common.
21848	The main symptom featured in hyperventilation is difficulty in breathing. During an asthma attack, a person loses his ability to breathe normally, thus he turns blue. Chest pains are also felt.
21849	The most frequent symptoms are intermittent infections, including ear, throat, and chest infections. If the immunodeficiency is not diagnosed or treated, permanent damage to ears and lungs may occur. Hyper IgM syndrome patients are susceptible to chronic pneumonia - in particular, PCP (or Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia), which often occurs in T cell immunodeficiencies. Additionally, other infectious problems may result - including diarrhea, bones and joints disorders (such as osteomyelitis, or bone infection), mouth ulcers, anemia, and even liver problems, among others.
21850	Among the symptoms of this condition is redness of the eye, decreases vision, occasional eye strains and presence of blood in the anterior chamber.
21851	Addison's disease, or primary hypoadrenalism, initially presents with subtle signs. Affected individuals may complain of faintness and dizziness, experience weakness and fatigue, and lose weight. Some patients also note vague stomach ache and gut pain as symptoms. Also common in primary hypoadrenalism is increased pigmentation of the skin due to elevated ACTH levels. On occasion, patients may experience mental problems such as depression. In some cases, joint and muscle pain may occur. Bleeding into the adrenal glands also happens in rare cases, leading to acute back pain.
21852	Symptoms of hypoaldosteronism include anorexia, asthenia, weight loss, hyperpigmentation and postural hypotension.
21853	The earliest symptoms of Hypocalcemia include the so-called "pins and needles" sensation, known medically as perioral tingling and parasthesia, over the extremities of hands and feet. Other symptoms include tetany, hyperactive tendon reflexes, laryngospasm and cardiac arrhythmias.
21854	Common symptoms include headaches, abdominal, back, joint, rectal, or urinary pain, nausea, itching, diarrhea, dizziness, or balance problems. Various people with hypochondria accompanied by medically unexplained symptoms feel they are not understood by their physicians, and are frustrated by their doctors' repeated failure to provide symptom relief.
21855	Persons with hypochondriasis illustrate frequent episodes of worrying about their health; they assume that they are in a grave illness and that they are about to die. But in reality, they are in a perfect state of health. At most times they prefer to stay in bed and lay sick, resulting to depression and eventual sickness due to lack of exercise.
21856	Individuals with this genetic disorder have abnormal bone formations in the spine and pelvis and have short limbs.
21857	Individuals suffering from hypochondroplasia usually appear normal at birth. Symptoms appear as the child grows. One of the most common symptoms of this condition is the improper development of the arms and legs as well as the torso. This results in the limbs being shorter and the torso being thicker and fatter than normal. Intelligence is not affected by the disease.
21858	Symptoms of this disorder usually develop slowly and may include: muscle weakness and fatigue, weight loss and decreased appetite, darkening of the skin (hyperpigmentation), low blood pressure, salt craving, low blood sugar (hypoglycemia), nausea, diarrhea, vomiting, irritability, and depression.
21860	The most common symptom of hypoglycemia is neuroglycopenia, an impairment of brain functions as caused by an inadequate supply of glucose to the brain. Other symptoms include temporary brain damage, "bad mood," and coma. If not checked early, hypoglycemia can even lead to death.
21861	Genetic and developmental disorders, surgery, liver and kidney diseases, radiation, certain autoimmune diseases and infections are some of the leading causes of primary hypogonadism, a condition wherein the testes do not function properly. Central hypogonadism, where the centers in the brain is dysfunctional, can also be caused by the ones cited above plus the following: tumors, trauma, bleeding, nutritional deficiencies and excessive iron.
21862	An uncommon presentation is fever of unknown origin.
21863	The symptoms of hypohidrotic ectodermal dysplasia include a reduction in the ability to sweat. This is because people suffering from this condition either have reduced sweat glands or their sweat glands are not working properly. Inability to sweat can lead to dangerously high body temperature since sweating is a major way to control body temperature. Other symptoms include having sparse body and scalp hair and having light-colored hair that are brittle and slow-growing. People with hypohidrotic ectodermal dysplasia sometime do not have teeth or if they do, they are often malformed and small. Their faces are also distinctive having large forheads, flattened nose bridge and thick lips. Some people with this condition have dark and wrinkled skin around the eyes, eczema and foul nasal discharge.
21864	Symptoms may include muscle cramps, headaches similar to what is experienced during a hangover, a sudden episode of visual snow, lowered blood pressure, and dizziness or fainting when standing up due to orthostatic hypotension. Untreated dehydration generally leads to delirium, unconsciousness, swelling of the tongue and in extreme cases death.
21865	Mild hypokalemia often shows no symptoms. High blood pressure is observed with some patients as a result of cardiac arythmia. In its moderate stage, hypokalemia can cause muscle cramps and weakness and even constipation. In its severe stage, hypokalemia may result to flaccid paralysis, tetany and hyporeflexia. Patients with hypokalemia can also experience respiratory depression as a result of severe impairment of skeletal muscle functions.
21866	The condition can either lead to partial or full body paralysis. The episodes of muscle paralysis often start during the adolescent years. It is often triggered by strenuous physical activity followed by a meal rich in carbohydrates and rest. Excitement, change in temperature and flashing lights may also trigger hypokalemic periodic paralysis, The attacks last from a few hours to several days. This condition can lead to chronic weakness referred to as an abortive attack or permanent muscle damage resulting from a bad diet, exhaustion or a gene mutation. The life span of individuals with hypokalemic periodic paralysis is normal but the condition though can become dangerous when it leads to breathing or heart problems.
21867	Sensory overstimulation is the main feature of this disorder. Persons with hypokalemic sensory disorder has also exhibited a decreased sensitivity to the anesthetic lidocaine. Some females who suffer from hypokalemic sensory overstimulation report having premenstrual syndrome.
21868	The symptoms of hypolipoproteinemia are usually connected with the cause of the condition instead of actual amount of fats in the blood.
21869	Symptoms of hyponatremia includes nausea and vomiting, headache, confusion, lethargy, fatigue, appetite loss, restlessness and irritability, muscle weakness, spasms, cramps, seizures, and decreased consciousness or coma.
21870	People suffering from hypoparathyroidism experience the following symptoms: muscle cramps, tingling sensation in the fingers, toes and lips, face, feet, leg and abdominal pain, brittle nails, dry hair and skin, weak teeth, cataracts, tetany (muscle spasms) and seizures. Additional symptoms include; hand and foot spasms, menstrual pain, decrease in consciousness and absent or delayed formation of teeth.
21871	The symptoms of hypophosphatasia include malformations of the bone and an increased chance in suffering from bone fractures. These symptoms often appear within the first 6 months after being born. Premature teeth loss is also a symptom of hypophosphatasia for both children and adult sufferers.
21871	Perinatal hypophosphatasia is invariably lethal while infantile hypophosphatasia has a roughly 50% mortality rate with symptoms appearing within the first 6th months after birth. The other types are generally non-lethal. Common symptoms including bone malformations and higher chance of bone fracture. Both adult form and odontohypophosphatasial form are marked by premature teeth loss.
21872	The signs and symptoms of post inflammatory hypopigmentation is in one or more areas of white or lighter areas of the skin; the shape, size and area(s) affected depend.
21873	The symptoms exhibited by hypopituitarism depends on the hormone that is affected. Most individuals suffering from hypopituitarism experiences abnormal growth and development since the disease causes a decrease in growth hormones. Some cases though lead to no serious conditions.
21874	A newborn with HLHS exhibits no symptoms. Signs of HLHS only appear after a few hours after birth to several days. The symptoms of HLHS include lethargy, poor ability to suckle and feed, rapid breathings, shortness of birth, enlarged liver, cold extremities, pounding heart, bluish or poor skin color and sudden death. Babies with HLHS have very small aorta and left ventricle. There is little of no blood flow since the mitral and aortic valves are either too small or are altogether close.
21875	The symptoms of hypoprothrombinaemia include impaired blood clotting and increased bleeding risk. Other symptoms include nosebleeds, abnormal bleeding, easy bruising, umbilical cord bleeding during birth and abnormal menstrual bleeding.
21877	The symptoms of hypospadias include having a penis with a downward curve, abnormal urine spray, inability to urinate while standing up, a malformed hood like skin over the penis and having the opening of the urethra on the underside of the penis.
21878	The main symptom of hyposplenism is greater risk to infections due to the reduced protective function of the spleen.
21879	The cardinal symptom of hypotension is lightheadedness or dizziness. If the blood pressure is sufficiently low, fainting and usually seizures will occur. Low blood pressure is sometimes associated with; chest pain, shortness of breath, Irregular heartbeat, Fever higher than 101 F, headache, stiff neck.
21880	Hypothalamic dysfunction may be caused as a result of surgery, tumors, infections, radiation, genetic disorders, bleeding, head trauma, excess iron and malnutrition. The eating disorders anorexia and bulimia are also possible causes of this condition.
21881	Most individuals with hypothalamic hamartoblastoma suffer from a condition called polydactyly, or having extra fingers and toes or cutaneous syndactyly or having fused skin between fingers and toes. Some may experience seizures and hormonal abnormalities as caused by the growth in the brain.
21882	By its definition, the cause of hypothermia is exposure to severely cold environment and conditions.
21884	Hypothyroidism may result from a number of causes. The most common of which is iodine efficiency. This cause is most common in developing countries. In developed countries, the condition is often caused by a condition known as Hashimoto's thyroiditis. It may also be caused by a lack in thyroid or a deficiency in hormones on vital areas such as the pituitary or hypothalamus. Postpartum thyroiditis, a condition that affects around 5% women within 1 year after giving birth, can also cause hypothyroidism. Hypothyroidism can also be inherited from parents.
21885	Individuals suffering from hypotrichosis have less than normal amount of hair on the head and body.
21887	The term hypoxia is also used to refer to oxygen starvation of the brain. Hypoxia can result to irreversible brain damage since brain cells is in constant need of oxygen. Hypoxia may occur before birth, affecting the fetus, or after birth. Hypoxia prior to birth is mainly caused by premature separation of the placenta resulting to oxygen supply cut off. It is believed that cerebral palsy is partly caused by hypoxia.
21888	The symptoms of hysteria vary. For those who demonstrate conversion reactions, symptoms play on their physical conditions. Patients may wage a sudden uproar and go wild, or be paralyzed for a certain period of time. Dissociative reactions meanwhile are different. Patients seem to lose knowledge of their identity and wander around like strangers. They also lose the concept of time and reality, or may go into a catatonic state.
21889	The main symptoms of ICF Syndrome include retarded growth, unusual facial appearance, retardation of psychomotor facilities, failure to thrive and low IgG serum level. Less common symptoms include umbilical hernia, wide set eyes, low set ears, protruding tongue and a flat face.
21890	As all phobias, ichthyophobia features irrational and excessive fear of fish - of being around fish or sometime even of eating fish. Some patients are afraid to eat fish because of fear of likely contaminants such as mercury.
21891	This condition is also sometimes referred to as fish skin due to its appearance. The symptoms usually manifest at around four years old and often improve as the patient grows older. Symptoms may, however, manifest again in old age. The acquired version of the disease usually manifest symptoms during adulthood. Ichthyosis vulgaris is not deadly. The only problem with this condition is the itching and the social impact of having a skin disease. Symptoms may include having mosaic lines, scaly patches and white scales in different parts of the body. Some cases of ichthyosis vulgaris present severe symptoms such as build up of scales in a wide area of the body.
21892	Among the symptoms of jaundice are yellowish skin and eyes.
21893	The symptoms of ICU psychosis include hallucinations in which the patient feels that he's under intensive care treatment, nightmares, dementia, and the inability to remember things especially those related to his previous treatment.
21894	The most common symptoms of idiopathic eosinophilic pneumonia are fever, cough, night sweats and breathing difficulties.
21895	The symptoms of AIS include back pain, having abnormal gait, discrepancy in the lengths of the legs and uneven hips. Some patients with AIS displays a very obvious curvature of the spine to one side. One of the very first indication of AIS is when clothes do not fit properly.
21896	Some symptoms of pulmonary fibrosis include: shortness of breath; chronic dry, hacking cough; fatigue and weakness; discomfort in the chest; loss of appetite; and rapid weight loss.
21898	Signs that typically indicate a low platelet count and possibly idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura include: easy or excessive bruising (purpura); superficial bleeding into the skin that appears as a rash of pinpoint-sized reddish-purple spots (petechiae), usually on the lower legs; prolonged bleeding from cuts; spontaneous bleeding from the gums or nose; blood in urine or stools; unusually heavy menstrual flows; and profuse bleeding during surgery.
21899	Persons with this condition usually have chronic diarrhea caused by intestinal infections. There are often frequent sinus, ear, and lung infections. Other symptoms include mouth infections and asthma or bronchiectasis of unexplained causes.
21900	Among the symptoms of ileitis are extreme abdominal pain, fever, chills, stomach disorders, diarrhea, and weight loss. The disease is often mistaken for appendicitis due to its location at the lower right area of the abdomen.
21901	Iliotibial Band Syndrome symptoms range from a stinging sensation just above the knee joint (on the outside of the knee or along the entire length of the iliotibial band) to swelling or thickening of the tissue at the point where the band moves over the femur. The pain may not show immediately during activity, but may intensify over time, especially as the foot strikes the ground.
21902	They main symptoms of this condition is extreme muscle pain, cramps and weakness in the tibial area of the affected limb.
21903	There are several symptoms for this group of diseases. Some of the more common signs and symptoms are linked to the shoulder (internal rotation deformity), elbow (extension and pronation deformity), wrist (volar and ulnar deformity), hand (fingers in fixed flexion and thumb-in-palm deformity), hip (flexed, abducted and externally rotated, often dislocated), knee (flexion deformity) and foot (clubfoot deformity). Complications may include scoliosis, lung hypoplasia leading to respiratory problems, midfacial hemangioma, growth retardation, facial and jaw deformities, respiratory problems, and abdominal hernias. Cognition and speech are generally normal.
21904	Common signs and symptoms of impacted wisdom teeth include: pain or tenderness around the gums; swelling around the jaw; red or swollen gums around the impacted tooth; jaw pain; bad breath; unpleasant taste when biting down or near the area; and prolonged headache or jaw ache.
21906	There are several forms of imperforate anus, one of which is a low lesion, in which the colon remains close to the skin. In this case, there may be a narrowing of the anus, or the anus may be missing altogether, with the rectum ending in a blind pouch. Another form is a high lesion, in which the colon is higher up in the pelvis and there is a fistula connecting the rectum and the bladder, urethra or the vagina. Also, there is a persistent cloaca (from the term cloaca, an analogous orifice in reptiles and amphibians), in which the rectum, vagina and colon are joined into a single channel.
21908	Impetigo is a skin condition which is often associated with poor living conditions. Most culprits include overcrowding and malnutrition. Impetigo is most likely to manifest in warm weather and usually strikes children, although in the absence of good hygiene, it may spread to the adults in the family as well. Impetigo often begins as a blister on the lip, which may be mistaken for a cold sore. The blister breaks fairly faster and a crust forms over the raw sore. The sore can ooze clear or yellowish liquid.
21909	The symptoms of impingement syndrome are shoulder pain, cramps and numbness, as well as the limited strength to rotate the arms.
21911	Signs and symptoms mentioned in various sources for impotence are; Inability to attain an erection and inability to sustain an erection. Impotence symptoms usually refers to various symptoms known to a patient, but the phrase Impotence signs may refer to those signs only noticeable by a doctor.
21912	Most of those in whom aminoacidura is found have disorders of the kidneys of the central nervous system, but there is a broad spectrum of clinical manifestations in patients with amoniacidura.
21913	Abnormalities may include failure to thrive; abnormalities of hair, skin, skeleton, or all three; dysmorphic features; abnormal odor; organomegaly; and abnormal muscle tone. Clinical symptoms of IEMs tend to be nonspecific and generally relate to major organ dysfunction or failure. The same symptoms appear with sepsis, respiratory illness, cardiac disease, GI obstruction, renal disease, and CNS problems. Presence of these conditions does not eliminate the possibility of an IEM.
21914	Symptoms of sporadic inclusion body myositis vary greatly, depending on the age when the condition first presents. In general, sIBM presents as progressive weakening of the muscles. The quadriceps muscles of the thighs and the arm muscles that control finger flexing are affected in the early stages. Other early signs of sIBM include falling or tripping, trouble climbing a flight of stairs, difficulty manipulating the fingers, inability to turn doorknobs, etc. As the illness progresses, the mobility of patients becomes even more restricted. In later stages, patients may be unable to bend down, reach for or grab objects, walk briskly, and so on. Several cases have noted complaints of loss of balance. This is most likely because the patient's muscles become unable to compensate for an off-balanced posture. Since sIBM results in leg muscle weakness and instability, patients have a high risk of serious injury from tripping or falling down. Additionally, severe muscle pain is a common symptom.
21915	In adult inclusion conjunctivitis, one eye is typically involved, with a stringy discharge of mucus and pus. There may be little bumps called follicles inside the lower eyelid and the eye is red in color. Sometimes, the condition damages the cornea, causing cloudy areas and a growth of new blood vessels (neovascularization).
21916	Symptoms may include: inability to urinate; pain related to filling the bladder and/or pain related to urination without a proven bladder infection; progressive weakness of the urinary stream with or without a feeling of incomplete bladder emptying; an increased rate of urination without a proven bladder infection; needing to rush to the restroom and/or losing urine if you do not get to restroom in time; abnormal urination or changes in urination related to a nervous system; abnormality such as stroke; leakage of urine that causes embarrassment; and frequent bladder infections.
21917	Eye abnormalities are found in about one-third of all people with incontinentia pigmenti (IP). They include disorders of the lens, retina, optic nerve, and muscles of the eyes. An estimated one-third of girls with IP have a turned eye.
21918	Pain in the chest or upper abdomen Heartburn Lack of appetite Vomiting and nausea Burping, flatulence or belching
21919	Respiratory distress syndrome starts shortly after birth and is manifest by tachypnea, tachycardia, chest wall retractions (recession), expiratory grunting, flaring of the nostrils and cyanosis during breathing efforts.
21920	Persons with the disease begin to exhibit symptoms such as headaches, fever and flu. Eventually they experience extreme muscle pain that leads to weakness and immobility. They also lose control of their voluntary muscle functions such that they resort to seizures and drooling.
21921	The primary manifestation may just be a minor twitch of a single limb or eye. However, there are often other linked symptoms. Many children who develop infantile spasms also have difficulties with feeding s and develop reflux. Arching backwards while feeding is a sign for infantile spasms. Many children who develop infantile spasms also have sight difficulties, and failure to focus and track visually is another sign.
21922	Infantile SMA is the most severe form of SMA. The symptoms include: muscle weakness; poor muscle tone; weak cry; limpness or a tendency to flop; the legs tend to be weaker than the arms; feeding difficulties; increased susceptibility to respiratory tract infections; and developmental milestones, such as lifting the head or sitting up, can't be reached.
21923	The symptoms include swelling in the infected joint and pain and discomfort when the joint is moved. Infectious arthritis in the hip may be experienced as pain in the groin area that worsens if the patient tries to walk. In 90% of cases, there is some tissue fluid leaking into the affected joint. The joint is sore when touched; it may or may not be warm to the touch, depending on how deep the infection lies within the joint. In majority of the cases the patient will have fever and chills, although the fever may be only low-grade. Children sometimes suffer from nausea and vomiting.
21924	Symptoms of bacterial endocarditis may include fatigue, fever, loss of appetite, night sweats, chills, headaches, joint discomfort, and tiny pinpoint-sized hemorrhages on the chest and back, fingers, or toes. Upon examination, the physician may also notice a new heart murmur and small hemorrhages in the mucous membranes of the eyes.
21925	Possible symptoms of androgen excess disorders are: Infertility, Irregular menstrual periods, Excessive hair growth and acne, Obesity and insulin resistance, Polycystic ovaries
21926	The most common symptoms of both ulcerative colitis and Crohn's disease are diarrhea and abdominal pain. Diarrhea can range from mild to severe as many as 20 or more visits to the bathroom per day. If the diarrhea is extreme, it can fall to dehydration, rapid heartbeat, and a drop in blood pressure. And continued loss of small amounts of blood in the stool may lead to anemia.
21927	Signs and symptoms include: rapid change in the appearance of one breast, over the course of days or weeks; thickness, heaviness or visible enlargement of one breast; discoloration, giving the breast a red, purple, pink or bruised appearance; unusual warmth of the affected breast; dimpling or ridges on the skin of the affected breast, similar to an orange peel; itching; tenderness, pain or aching; enlarged lymph nodes under the arm, above the collarbone or below the collarbone; flattening or turning inward of the nipple; swollen or crusted skin on the nipple; and change in color of the skin around the nipple (areola).
21928	Common symptoms include: body aches, especially joints and throat; coughing and sneezing; extreme coldness and fever; fatigue; headache; irritated watering eyes; nasal congestion; reddened eyes, skin (especially face), mouth, throat and nose; and abdominal pain (in children with Influenza B). Although nausea, vomiting, and diarrhea can sometimes accompany influenza infection, especially in children, gastrointestinal symptoms are rarely seen. The term "stomach flu" is a misnomer that is occasionally used to describe gastrointestinal illnesses caused by other microorganisms.
21929	Symptoms of an include toenail include: pain and tenderness in the toe along one or both sides of the nail, redness around the toenail, swelling of the toe around the toenail, and infection of the tissue around the toenail.
21930	Symptoms include: pain or discomfort in the groin, especially when bending over, coughing or lifting; heavy or dragging sensation in the groin; and occasionally, in men, pain and swelling in the scrotum around the testicles when the protruding intestine descends into the scrotum.
21931	Bulge is obvious when standing straight or coughing Groin pain especially when bending or coughing Dragging or heavy feeling in the groin Inflammation and pain in the scrotum around the testicles if the intestine that is protruding goes down in to the scrotum
21932	Various sources of insomnia are; sleeping problems, difficulty falling asleep, frequent night waking, difficulty returning to sleep, waking very early, racing mind, Daytime tiredness, fatigue, drowsiness, difficulty in concentrating and irritability.
21933	Symptoms of insulin resistance are; fatigue, Brain fogginess and inability to focus. Sometimes that fatigue is physical, but often mental. Low blood sugar, brief periods of low blood sugar are normal during the day, especially if meals are not eaten on a regular time.
21934	Patients with insulinomas typically develop neuroglycopenic symptoms. These include recurrent headache, diplopia, lethargy, and blurred vision, particularly with exercise or fasting. Severe hypoglycemia may result in seizures, coma, and eventually, permanent neurological damage. Symptoms arising from the catecholaminergic response to hypoglycemia (i.e. palpitations, tremulousness, tachycardia, sweating, hunger, anxiety, nausea) are not as common. Sudden weight gain (the patient can become massively obese) is occasionally seen.
21935	The signs that indicate the presence of the disease are an abnormally large abdomen, rupture of the abdominal tissue, muscoskeletal abnormalities and sutures around the nerve.
21936	Among the symptoms of intermittent claudication are sudden pain on the calves and feet, immobility of the affected area, and numbness.
21937	Intermittent Explosive Disorder is marked by several discrete episodes of failure to resist aggressive impulses that result in serious assaultive acts or destruction of property. The degree of aggressiveness is shown during the episodes is grossly out of proportion to any precipitating psychosocial stress.
21938	Internal bleeding itself is a symptom of a disease that has leveled up to an advanced stage, such as coronary heart diseases, hypertension, liver cancer and leukemia. There are no symptoms for internal bleeding.
21939	The symptoms of interstitial cystitis differ greatly from one person to another but have some similarities to those of a urinary tract infection. They include: decreased bladder capacity; an urgent need to urinate frequently day and night; feelings of pressure, pain, and tenderness around the bladder, pelvis, and perineum (the area between the anus and vagina or anus and scrotum) which may increase as the bladder fills and decrease as it empties; painful sexual intercourse (dyspareunia); and discomfort or pain in the penis and scrotum.
21940	Although Interstitial Lung Disease refers to a wide variety of lung diseases, the early manifestations of each disease is quite similar. Like most diseases affecting the lungs, difficulty in breathing especially after performing an activity and a dry cough is perceptible during the initial onset of the disease.
21941	The skin may become inflamed in neck creases, on the skin behind the knee or in front of the elbows, in the groin folds or in the thigh, or less commonly under the belly or breast folds for people who are obese. It is also noted that redness and breaks in the skin (erosions) of opposing skin surfaces where the area may ooze or be sore or itchy, for intertrigo is most commonly seen in skin fold areas.
21942	Some intestinal adhesions have no symptoms but if there is partial or complete blockage of the intestines symptoms may include crampy abdominal pain, vomiting, bloating, inability to pass gas and constipation.
21943	The symptoms of intestinal flu include headache, stomach ache and fever that may last for a week. Loose bowel movement may also occur.
21944	Signs and symptoms of acute intestinal ischemia typically include: sudden abdominal pain that may range from mild to severe; an urgent need to move your bowels; frequent, forceful bowel movements; abdominal tenderness or distention; blood in your stool; nausea, vomiting; and fever.
21945	Many common signs and symptoms of Whipple's disease involve the gastrointestinal system and include: diarrhea, abdominal cramping and pain; weight loss associated with the malabsorption of nutrients; and inflamed joints particularly with the ankles, knees, and wrists.
21946	Among the symptoms of intestinal obstruction are constipation, intense abdominal pain, and absence of bowel sounds.
21947	Cramps Abdominal pain Nausea Vomiting Bloating Constipation
21948	Intestinal pseudo-obstruction is the weakened ability of the intestines to completely push food through. Intestinal pseudo-obstruction is classified into two categories: primary condition and secondary condition. Primary conditions are those with unknown cause (idiopathic), it can also be inherited from a parent; while secondary conditions are those caused by a different underlying ailment.
21949	Signs and symptoms of an intracranial hematoma may occur from immediately to several weeks or longer after a blow to the head. As time progresses, pressure on the brain increases, producing some or all of the following signs and symptoms: headache, nausea, vomiting, drowsiness, dizziness, confusion, slurred speech or loss of ability to speak, pupils of unequal size, and weakness in limbs on side of the body.
21950	The classic symptom is severe headache when upright, which is relieved when lying flat. While other symptoms can include nausea, vomiting, double vision and difficulty with concentration.
21951	DCIS usually has no external signs or symptoms. However, some women may have a breast lump or nipple discharge linked with DCIS. Usually, though, DCIS is found on a screening mammogram, in which a radiologist identifies microcalcifications - tiny groups of calcium deposits - that indicate the presence of breast cancer. The microcalcifications show up on a mammogram as irregularly sized and shaped clusters of white spots.
21952	The most common symptoms that may indicate intraocular lymphoma involves painless, decreased or blurred vision directly caused by the tumor cells present in the vitreous.
21953	Most melanomas of the iris, ciliary or choroid are primarily completely asymptomatic. As the tumor grows, the tumor may cause distortion of the pupil (iris melanoma), blurred vision (ciliary body melanoma) or markedly decreased visual acuity from a secondary retinal detachment caused by a choroidal melanoma.
21954	The symptoms of the IGR are low birth weight, thin umbilical cord, and paleness of skin of the newborn infant.
21955	Among the symptoms present in a person with the disorder are low birth weight, feeding problems, excessive sweating, wide soft spots, craniofacial abnormalities, and precocious puberty.
21956	The main evidence of intussusception is the abnormal fold of the bowel. This results to difficulty in excreting waste, obstruction of the rectum, as well as gangrene.
21958	The most common signs and symptoms of iodine deficiency are those that are visible signs of medical ailments caused by lack of iodine. Delayed physical and mental growth may be a signal for iron deficiency. Other physical evidences include protruding eyes, lump sited in the neck, and other manifestations of goiter. Mild cases of iodine deficiency may exhibit weariness and exhaustion, loss of motivation, and fatigue.
21960	Primary symptoms of iridocyclitis include: excessive sensitivity to light or fear of well-lit places; referred to as photophobia, white part of the eye appears red in color, watery eyes or lacrimation, blurred vision, pupil constriction, and Synechia; a medical condition wherein the iris sticks on either the cornea or lens of the eye.
21961	Possible signs and symptoms of Iritis include the following: * Photophobia, which is described as extreme sensitivity to light sources of any kind. * Blurred and cloudy vision, which tend to be irritating at times. * White blood cells appear in the anterior chamber creating a gray or near-white smoke-like faτade; there is also presence of protein resulting to tiny white dots in the anterior chamber as well. This combination is referred to as "cells and flare." * Adhesion of iris to cornea or lens of the eye, medically referred to as Synechia. * The part of the eye adjacent to the iris is reddened. * Pain in the ocular and periorbital section of the eye. * Consensual photophobia
21962	Persons suffering from iron-deficiency exhibit symptoms such as paleness, weakness, lack of energy and frequent headaches. Low red blood cell count is also evident.
21963	Iron deficiency anemia is characterized by pallor (reduced amount of oxyhemoglobin in skin or mucous membrane), fatigue and weakness. Due to its tends to develop slowly, adaptation occurs and the disease often goes unrecognized for some time. In severe cases, dyspnea (trouble breathing) can happen.
21964	Signs and symptoms include: arthritis, especially in the hands; chronic fatigue; loss of sex drive (libido) or impotence; lack of normal menstruation (amenorrhea); abdominal pain; high blood sugar levels; low thyroid function (hypothyroidism); and abnormal liver function tests, even if no other symptoms are present.
21965	The symptoms of iron poisoning include abdominal pain, vomiting, headache, and eventual damage of the internal organs such as the liver and brain.
21966	The symptoms of arrhythmia include palpitations, restlessness, shortness of breath and anxiety.
21967	Overactive bladder symptoms may mean you: Feel a strong, sudden urge to urinate; experience urge incontinence, the unintended loss of urine immediately following an urgent need to urinate; urinate frequently, usually eight or more times in 24 hours; awaken two or more times in the night to urinate (nocturia).
21968	The most common symptoms of Irritable Bowel Syndrome are abdominal pain, frequent diarrhea, constipation, gas, bloating, distended abdomen, headache, feelings of unfinished bowel movements.
21970	The condition usually has mild symptoms but can become severe. Most people with the condition feel pain on the left side of the abdomen. Affected individuals has low-grade fever, blood in the stool, diarrhea, nausea, and vomiting.
21971	Itchy skin is an uncomfortable, irritating sensation that makes one want to scratch. It may take place in small areas, such as on an arm or leg. Or the whole body may feel itchy. Itchy skin can arise without any other noticeable changes on the skin. Or, it may be associated with: redness, bumps, spots, blisters, cracked skin, and leathery or scaly texture to the skin.
21973	Upon immediate contact the body will fill a sudden burning sensation. This will be followed by fever, chills, weakness as well as the development of red sores and rashes on the skin.
21974	Individuals suffering from Jackson-Weiss Syndrome are easy to identify because of their bulging forehead, eyes widely-shaped, and malformed skull. However, not all persons with Jackson-Weiss Syndrome have visible malformations in the skull and face. Most of them have evident foot abnormalities characterized with enlarged toes curved away from the other toes.
21975	People suffering from Jacobsen syndrome is prone to developing a condition known as strabismus, which is defined as misalignment of the eye that causes both eyes to look at different directions. Low-set, warped ears, short up-turned nose (anteverted nostrils), inward bound thin lips, epicanthus or folding of the skin close to the eye are some of the facial manifestations of Jacobsen syndrome. Hammer toes may possible suggest Jacobsen syndrome; hammer toes is the term used to describe middle joint misshapenness of the second, third, or fourth toe wherein the toes are bent, assuming the look of a hammer. Mental retardation and cognitive dysfunction along with delayed motor skills are probable for patients with Jacobsen syndrome.
21976	Japanese Encephalitis infections tend to be asymptomatic during the incubation period. On the other hand, several obvious manifestations appear during mild infections. On the onset of encephalitis, fever, malaise, and headache are apparent. Inflexibility of the neck, cachexia, paralysis on one side of the body (hemiparesis), convulsion, and extremely high fever are noticeable when the disease progress to the acute stage.
21976	For mild cases of the disease there are mild or no symptoms at all but for severe cases symptoms may begin with flu-like illness, fever, chills, tiredness, headache, vomiting and nausea. During the early stage of the disease confusion and anxiety can also happen.
21977	Individuals suffering from Jarcho-Levin syndrome are identified to have short trunk and neck (short trunk dwarfism), protruding abdomen, arms are comparatively long, crab-like rib cage and other visible rib cage deformities, inward curvature of the spine ( lordosis) - to name a few.
21978	The symptoms of jaundice are extreme weakness, headache, fever, loss of appetite, severe constipation, nausea, and yellow discoloration of the eyes, tongue, skin, and urine.
21980	Jejunal atresia often shows visible signs of vomiting, swollen abdomen, and constipation.
21981	People suffering from Jervell and Lange-Nielsen syndrome experiences deafness because the disorder contributes to hearing loss. Other dominant symptoms may include a combination or all of the following: fainting, seizures, paleness, blue/purple skin (cyanosis), deep sleep, longer heartbeat interval, and hyperchromic anemia.
21983	Jock itch is usually less severe other than tinea infections. If it is not treated, though, it can last for weeks or months. Symptoms of jock itch include: a circular, red, raised rash with elevated edges, itching, chafing, or burning in the groin, thigh, or anal area, skin redness in the groin, thigh, or anal area, flaking, peeling, or cracking skin.
21984	The list of symptoms and signs for Johnson Munson syndrome consists of the following: hemivertebrae; lungs that are underdeveloped; visceral defects or malformations; ventricular septal abnormality; urogenital tract defects; abnormalities of the rectum; and missing toes or fingers.
21985	The symptoms for the disease include difficulty in speech and swallowing, muscle spasms, weakness of the limbs, involuntary eye movements and frequent urination. These symptoms can eventually lead to paralysis.
21986	Joubert syndrome is characterized by the malformation of the brain stem (sign of molar tooth) and the underdevelopment or absence of a certain brain part which is called the cerebellar vermis. The most common signs include the lack of control of the muscles or ataxia; sleep apnea; hypernea or an abnormality on the breathing pattern; abnormal tongue and eye movements; and hypotonia. Other defects include having extra toes or fingers; cleft lip; cleft palate; abnormalities of the tongue; and seizures could also occur. Retardation could also be a symptom and it ranges from mild to moderate. Other symptoms include abnormal movements of the eye; rotatory nystagmus; irregular eye movements wherein the eyes appear jerky; retardation of psychomotor skills; the inability to control movements that should be voluntary; deep, unusual breathing; abnormally deep inhalations; irregularities of the respiratory system; hypermetria; dysmetria; tremors; and weakness of the skeletal muscles.
21988	The vasculitis which is caused by JDM is manifested in two ways: a distinct rash and inflammation of the muscles. The rash usually affects the patient's hands, eyelids, face, and occasionally the skin right above the joints; also the knees, knuckles and elbows. The rash is pinkish-purple in color and is named heliotrope (which is a flower with the same name and almost the same color). The rash that is found on the face and hands most often resemble allergies, fifth disease, eczema or other more common skin symptoms. The color is what sets the JDM apart from all these other symptoms, though. The rash comprises the 'dermato-' part of the illness. The next symptom (muscle inflammation) comprises the 'myositis' part of the illness. The inflammation of the muscles results into weakness of the muscles, clumsiness, fatigue, and even physical inactivity. When the condition worsens, the patient would soon suffer from the inability to do simple tasks such as lifting objects; climbing the stairs; and even doing simple manual tasks. The signs could include dysphonia, falling or dysphagia. Due to these symptoms, JDM is often misdiagnosed as muscular dystrophy or any other disease of the muscle. A few patients develop contractures (the muscle retracts and the joints remain bent). Frequent exercise can prevent contractures. The first muscles that are first to be affected tend to be the proximal muscles such as those that are located on the shoulders, neck, back and abdomen. About half of the number of patients also complains of pain.
21989	The common sign of JME is myoclonus which occurs during early hours in the morning. This does not often result into falls but rather object dropping (or unintentionally letting go of objects that are in one's hands). The attacks of myoclonia are more common on the legs and arms. Other types of seizures can also occur such as absence seizures and generalized tonic-clonic seizures.
21990	The big toe, the heel and the ball of the foot are the most common locations for sweaty sock syndrome. It occurs as shiny, red patched on the weight-bearing surfaces of the feet, making the skin appear tight and smooth. Painful cracks (fissures) may be present occasionally and even though children may complain of heavy sweating, the skin feels scaly and dry.
21992	In adolescents with schizophrenia, behavior changes may occur gradually, over time, or have a sudden onset. The adolescent may slowly become more shy and withdrawn. They may start to talk about bizarre ideas or fears and begin to cling more to parents. One of the most disturbing and puzzling characteristics of schizophrenia is the sudden onset of its psychotic signs.
21994	The most common symptoms of Kallman syndrome with Spastic Paraplegia are spasticity of the lower legs; weakness of the lower legs; congenital inability to smell (which could be in the form of hyposmia or decreased ability of smelling or anosmia which is the complete smelling inability); and delays in puberty. The puberty delay signs could include not having fully-developed breasts. A number of patients have also been reported to be color blind.
21996	Kaposi's sarcoma is identified with lesions that appear as papular nodules or blotches, which are usually colored red, black, brown or purple. These lesions thrive in many skin and body surfaces including the mouth, face, and genital organs. They may also invade the hollow organs in the gastrointestinal tract and respiratory tract. Presence in the gastrointestinal tract will be responsible for producing symptoms including diarrhea, bleeding, weight loss, nausea/vomiting, and pain. Coughing up blood, chest pain, fever, cough, shortness of breath will be manifested as lesions flourish in the respiratory tract.
21997	Absent fibula, absent ulnar, missing fingers, and lobster claw appearance of the hand are some of the visible indications of Karsch Neugebauer syndrome. Short arm bones and other finger abnormalities may also suggest presence of Karsch Neugebauer syndrome.
21998	Majority of the symptoms produced by Kartagener syndrome are due to ineffective ciliary function which includes the following: * Recurring sinus infection * Poor sense of smell * Glue ear * Persistent infections involving the ear that causes loss of hearing * Chronic headaches and sometimes hydrocephalus * Lung infections like pneumonia and bronchitis that seems to be unrelieved * Frequent infections in the lung may result to severe lung damage (bronchiectasis) The most remarkable characteristic that can distinguish Kartagener syndrome among other syndromes is the internal organ reversal (situs inversus). In this condition, an organ that normally appears on the right is located on the left. For example, the heart will be on the right side of the chest, when its normal position should be on the left.
21999	Individuals suffering from Kaufman Oculocerebrofacial syndrome have manifestations of one or more of the following features and symptoms suggesting presence of the disorder. * Long thin hands and feet * Eye abnormalities including shaky or wiggly eye movement (nystagmus) * Unusually looking long narrow face * Small head; those some persons have normally small head, Kaufman Oculocerebrofacial syndrome-inflicted inviduals have abnormally-sized small head * Serious/Severe mental retardation * Small jaw or mandible * High arched and narrow palate * Flared nostrils or wide opened nostrils * Delayed physical and mental growth * Epicanthal folds * Thin or bare eyebrows * Flat upper lip groove
22000	On the onset Kawasaki syndrome is marked with very high grade fever that never go down even with normal paracetamol, or ibuprofen doses. The fever may last for two weeks. Other symptoms include the following: * Irritability * Red cracked lips * Iritis * Keratic precipitates ( usually distinguished by an ophthalmologist using his device) * Red mucus lining in the mouth * Skin rashes that are non-blister in appearance * Swollen lymph nodes * Peeling of the skin in the hands, feet, and genital area (desquamation) * Red eyes (conjunctivitis) no pus or drainage * White coating on the tongue ( strawberry tongue) with red bumps on the back section of the tongue * Red palms and soles of the feet * Swollen hands and feet * Joint swelling and pain * Rapid heartbeat (tachycardia)
22001	Patients suffering from Kearns -Sayre syndrome presents the following manifestations: * Abnormal eye conditions including progressive external ophthalmoplegia, which is weakness in the eye muscles controlling its movement and degeneration of the retina. * Weakness of the skeletal muscles * Difficulty in swallowing * Pigmentation in the retina of the eye * Heart conduction defects * Short stature * Cognitive dysfunction * Loss of hearing or deafness * Impaired ability to control voluntary movements and failure of muscular coordination (ataxia) * Paralysis of the muscles of the eye * Recurring inflammation of the retina
22002	Keloid scars tend to come with itchiness that may progress from mild to severe, surface changes, and sometimes painful when touched. Colors may differ from pink to flesh or red on the way to being brown in color. It may also appear as shiny, rubbery, tough nodules.
22003	Initial presentations include: * Weakness of the tongue and mouth muscles * Facial weakness * Weakness of limb muscles that increases little by little usually comes with muscle wasting. * Some cases present premature music fatigue usually beginning during the adolescent years. Neuromuscular Symptoms include: * Difficulty in swallowing * Impairment in speech * Tongue weakness * Hand tremor with volitional effort * Unremarkable loss of sensation and numbness * Shrinking deep tendon reflexes than may progress to complete absence; usually noted when the doctor taps the knee with his hammer * Muscle weakness and muscle wasting * Muscular cramps * Muscular atrophy * Muscle jerks when not in motion Other Symptoms * Enlargement of the breast (gynecomastia) * Testicles decrease in size with remarkably lesser function * Reduced fertility * Impotence * Erectile dysfunction
22005	On the onset, Keratoacanthoma appears as a smooth red nodule/papule; usually, dome-shaped, resembling the shape of a volcano. It will rapidly grow within weeks; usually measuring 1-2 cm. It will then grow a keratin-filled "crater", surrounded by crust. When left untreated, tumor will continuously grow and may last for 6 weeks. Slow regression is observed from 2-12 months. Keratoacanthoma can either appear alone or in multiple. The tumor is painless but can be itchy at times.
22006	Remarkable symptoms for Keratoconjunctivitis Sicca involve: * Dry, itchy, tired eyes * Redness, pulling sensation, and pain behind the eye * Unusual feeling that there is an embedded thing in the eye like a small piece of dirt * Stringy discharge from the eye * Excessive tearing sensation in the eye * Reflex tear These symptoms progressively increase in dusty, windy, and smoky locations. Other settings like high altitude, low humidity days, and even just by using the hair blower, fan, or heater also aggravates the symptoms of Keratoconjunctivitis Sicca.
22007	People with Keratoconus experience the following symptoms: * Minor blurring of vision that deteriorates rapidly * Poor vision at night * Astigmatism * Extreme sensitive to bright light (photophobia) * Eye strain caused by squinting to be able to read * Itchiness in the eye * Perception of two images when in fact there is only one (Monocular Polyopia)
22008	Pressure-bearing sites on the soles of the feet, especially the heels, palms of the hands and non-pressure bearing sites on the soles of the feet are the most common locations for pitted keratolysis. The condition appears as white patches studded with small (0.5-5mm), shallow pits in the superficial skin in these areas. These pits can sometimes join together (coalese) to form larger, crater-like lesions that may occasionally be painful or itchy.
22009	The symptoms of keratosis are usually of pigmented growths on the skin. These growths are of shades that are contrast to one's normal skin color. These growths can be the onset of skin cancer.
22010	Small, white to gray bumps appear. A hair follicle is quite visible in the middle. A thin, red ring can sometimes be noticed; signifying inflammation. On rare occasions, these lesions can be itchy.
22011	The distinguishable manifestations of Seborrheic Keratosis can be identified as follows: * Small-raised wart-like appearance * Sometimes can be yellow, pink, brown, and black * Excessive skin pigmentation * Skin growths that are round to oval shape of different sizes.
22012	Appearing as a thick, mushy area of the scalp, a kerion is often studded with pus-filled bumps (pustules), and can break open drain pus. If a kerion is untreated, it can lead to scarring and permanent hair loss (alopecia). Kerion may be accompanied by fever and pain, and in addition, the lymph nodes at the back of the scalp, behind the ears, or along the sides of the neck may be swollen.
22013	Infants inflicted with Kernicterus may suffer some or all of the following symptoms: * Hypotonia or decreased tension in the muscles ( spastic muscles) * Involuntary, slow hand contraction (athetosis) * Poor vertical gaze * Deafness * High-pitched cry * Reduced sucking reflex * Fever and convulsions * Mental Insufficiency * Anemia
22014	It is a rare disease that can cause immediate death to newborns due to infection, cardiomyopathy or secondary hyperammonemia. Among the symptoms of the disorder are lethargy, dehydration, vomting and hypotonia.
22015	Common symptoms of kidney cancer include: Blood in the urine (making the urine slightly rusty to deep red), Pain in the side that does not go away. A lump or mass in the side or the abdomen, Weight loss, Fever, Feeling very tired or having a general feeling of poor health.
22016	The symptoms of kidney failure include malfunction of the kidneys, jaundice, and presence of other kidney diseases that have led to the said condition.
22017	Signs and symptoms of acute kidney failure may include: decreased urine output, although occasionally urine output remains normal; fluid retention, causing swelling in the legs, ankles or feet; drowsiness; shortness of breath; fatigue; confusion; seizures or coma in severe cases; chest pain related to pericarditis, an inflammation of the sac-like membrane that envelops the heart.
22018	Kidney infection may cause one or more of these signs and symptoms: Frequent urination, Strong, persistent urge to urinate, Burning sensation or pain when urinating, Abdominal pain or pressure, Cloudy urine with a strong odor, Pus or blood in your urine (hematuria), Inability to urinate (urine retention), Need to urinate during the night (nocturia), Back, side (flank) or groin pain, Fever.
22019	Symptoms of kidney stones include: Colicky pain: "loin to groin". Commonly described as the "the worst pain ever experienced". Hematuria which is the blood in the urine, due to minor damage to inside wall of kidney, ureter and/or urethra.
22020	Symptoms of Kikuchi Disease and Hodgkin's lymphoma are identical; this similarity has led to misdiagnosis and worse of all, unsafe cancer treatments to patients inflicted with Kikuchi Disease. Kikuchi Disease-inflicted individuals manifest the following symptoms: * Fever * Musculoskeletal pain (bone and joint pain) * Inexplicable weight loss * Fatigue * General weakness * Unidentifiable skin eruptions (exanthema) * Reduced neutrophils in the blood * Enlarged/swollen lymph nodes * Painful lymph nodes * Soaking/drenching night sweats * Inability to focus mentally
22021	Signs and symptoms significant to Malignant Hyperthermia or King-Denborough Syndrome are the following: * Muscular rigidity * Tachycardia * Increased carbon dioxide production (hypercarbia) * Increased in body temperature (hyperthermia) * Short stature * Myopathy * Undescended testicles (cryptorchidism) * Chest wall resembling the chest of the pigeon * Kyphosis or lordosis (deformities of the spine) * Unusual facial characteristics including small mandible and drooping upper eyelid, among others
22022	Some symptoms of kissing disease are: fatigue; weakness; sore throat; fever; swollen lymph nodes in the neck and armpits; swollen tonsils; headache; skin rash; loss of appetite; soft, swollen spleen; and night sweats.
22023	Majority of the symptoms of this rare disorder is on the mental and psychological aspect. Kleine-Levin syndrome inflicted individuals experience lethargy; they tend to be sluggish and lazy. They seem to show lack of interest, likely to be indifferent or unresponsive. They also become more irritable and confused. Other symptoms include: * Excessive sleepiness or tiredness (somnolence) * Morbid hunger or eating too much * Incoherent speech * Strange behavior of uncontrollable sex urge
22024	Symptoms of kleptomania may include: Powerful urges to steal items that you don't need. Feeling increase of tension leading up to the theft. Feeling of pleasure or gratification while stealing. Feeling terrible guilt or shame after the theft
22025	Males suffering from this Klinefelter's Syndrome have presence of the following symptoms: * Decreased testicular hormone/endocrine function * Learning impairment within a certain level * Thought and behavior deficiency * Increased breast tissue ( Gynecomastia) * Small testicles (Microorchidism)
22026	Klippel Trenaunay-Weber Syndrome -inflicted persons manifest a combination of the following symptoms: * A characteristic "port-wine stain" with sharp edges; Port-wine stain is a vascular birthmark which consists of superficial and deep dilated capillaries in the skin. This birthmark is identifiable by its reddish to purplish appearance in the skin. * Enlarged, deformed, and twisted veins (Varicose veins) * Increase in size of bony and soft tissues; which can result to either shrinking or gigantism. * An inappropriately developed lymph system.
22027	Klippel-Feil Syndrome is a rare condition that presents the following common signs and symptoms: * Remarkably short neck * Low hairline * Limited upper spine mobility Abnormalities linked to Klippel-Feil Syndrome possibly will include the following: * Curvature of the spine (scoliosis) * Spina bifida (neural tube defect) * Respiratory problems * Cleft palate * Malformations of the heart * Kidney and rib irregularities
22028	Klumpke's paralysis is manifested by any of the following presentations: * Loss of muscle function (paralysis) of the hand muscles * Distributed lack of sensation running from the shoulder to the hand * Horner's syndrome if the condition involves first thoracic nerves * Hand weakness * Disturbed vision * Ulnar side of the arm experiences difference in sensation * Constriction of the pupil (myosis) * Only one side of the face is sweating * Sunken eyeballs * Space between eyelids are narrowed
22030	Individuals with Kluver-Bucy syndrome display the following behavioral manifestations: * Human with Kluver-Bucy syndrome possibly will present oral or tactile exploratory actions. For example: acts of licking and touching that are unacceptable for public display. * They may demonstrate excessive desire to engage in human sexual practices (hypersexuality). * They tend to engage in binge-eating (excessive, uncontrollable over eating) with feelings of guilt and depression afterwards (bulimia). * People suffering from Kluver-Bucy syndrome tend to be subjected to memory disorders including short-term memory loss and other severe presentations of memory-related ailments. * Inability to recognize people * Lack of fear reaction * They may also exhibit presentations of flattened emotions (placidity) like unusual and extreme feelings of calmness and undisturbed emotions. * Sufferers can also be observed of having some extent of difficulty in distinguishing and identifying some objects.
22031	Kniest dysplasia is characterized by any or a combination of the following presentations: * Short stature noted since birth, combined with short trunk, big joints, and shortened limbs * Continuous enlargement of the joints alongside pain, which eventually restricts movement of that area. * Increasingly shortened spine brought about by significant spinal curvature * Arms and legs have remarkable dumbbell-shaped bones in the legs and arms * Bones of the spine are severely flattened (platyspondyly) * Fingers are long and distorted * On rare cases, a foot deformity referred to as "clubfoot" appears * Prominent and wide-set eyes with a round and flat face * Infants are born with cleft palate * Breathing problems in infants * Severe myopia and other eye concerns that may result to blindness * Recurrent ear infections may lead to deafness
22032	Kohler disease sufferers often exhibit one or more of the following manifestations: * Pain in the middle portion of the foot * Inflammation in the mid-section of the foot * This may cause them to walk lamely or shuffle * the tarsal bone in the affected foot may appear broad and flattened
22033	Korsakoff's syndrome has the following major symptoms: * Anterograde amnesia * Retrograde amnesia or combination of both, resulting to severe loss of memory * Confabulation or false memory, which is marked by uncertainty to differentiate imagination from memory * Worthless substance while in a conversation * lack of insight to the condition * absence of enthusiasm and interest (apathy)
22034	Individuals suffering from Kostmann Syndrome manifest the following signs and symptoms: * Recurring and persistent infections * Presence of necrotic ulcers in the mucus membrane epithelium of the mouth * Presence of necrotic ulcers in the genital mucosa * Liver overcrowding or blockage * Spleen overcrowding or blockage
22035	Infants affected with Krabbe disease are normal at birth. Symptoms occur at the ages of 3 and 6 months with irritability, fevers, limb stiffness, seizures, feeding difficulties, vomiting, and slowing of mental and motor development. In the first stages of the disease, doctors usually mistake the symptoms for those of cerebral palsy. Other symptoms include muscle weakness, spasticity, optic atrophy and blindness, deafness, paralysis, and difficulty when swallowing. There may also be prolonged weight loss. There are also juvenile- and adult-onset cases of Krabbe disease, which have similar symptoms but with slower progression.
22036	Symptoms of Krause-Kivlin syndrome include: mental retardation; growth deficiency; low birth weight; round face; primonent forehead; widely-spaced eyes; long philtrum; cupid-bow shape of upper lip; thin vermilion border; small and malformed ears; small lower jaw; broad neck; preauricular pits; Peters anomaly; anterior eye chamber cleavage disorder; nystagmus; glaucoma; central cornea leukoma; central defect of Descemet's membrane; shallow anterior chamber; short limbs; decreased range of elbow motion; broad and short hands; broad and short feet; fifth finger clinodactyly; cardiac defects; atrial septal defects; ventricular septal defects; pulmonary stenosis; hydronephrosis; duplication of kidneys; undescended testes; infant feeding problems; delayed developmental milestones; and impaired vision.
22037	Patients with the tumor often complain about pain in the abdomen or pelvis, vaginal bleeding, bloatedness and discomfort during intercourse.
22038	Persons with the disease experience a progressive degeneration of their mobile abilities. They find it hard to walk and run properly, and suffer pain while doing such activities. Tremors can also be felt on the fingers.
22039	The symptoms of kuru include fever, chills, and recurring hallucinations.
22040	Some of the more common signs and symptoms are linked with the shoulder (internal rotation deformity), elbow (extension and pronation deformity), wrist (volar and ulnar deformity), hand (fingers in fixed flexion and thumb-in-palm deformity), hip (flexed, abducted and externally rotated, often dislocated), knee (flexion deformity) and foot (clubfoot deformity). Complications may include lung hypoplasia leading to respiratory problems, growth retardation, scoliosis, midfacial hemangioma, facial and jaw deformities, respiratory problems, and abdominal hernias. Speech and cognition are usually normal.
22041	A child with Kwashiorkor usually presents the following symptoms: * Swollen abdomen (pot belly), which may due to accumulation of fluid in the peritoneal cavity (ascites) or a extremely enlarged liver as a result of fatty liver. * Skin and hair pigment changes or alternating bands of pale and dark hair (flag signs). * Severe weight loss * Stunted growth * Remarkable tiredness and loss of energy, also known as lethargy * Impaired immunity or reduced immune response because they fail to produce antibodies against any sickness even after a previous vaccination * Delayed puberty * Dermatitis * Depigmented skin
22042	Kyasanur forest disease-inflicted individuals usually present the following manifestations: * Headache * High fever * Bleeding originating from the nasal cavity and throat. * Vomiting During the convalescent period the patient may experience muscle weakness and muscle aches, which makes him uneasy and not capable of performing physical activities; convalescent process is a long-standing process that may last for several months, but the person with Kyasanur forest disease can achieve recovery from 2 weeks after onset of the disease.
22043	Symptoms of Kyphosis may or may not present the following manifestations depending on the severity and type of defect: * Mild pain in the back * Fatigue * Breathing difficulties * Manifestations of evident round back Severe cases of Kyphosis can bring about remarkable discomfort and worse, can possible lead to death.
22044	These symptoms may or may not be obvious during the early stages for persons who are inflicted with Labrador Lung: * Coughing * Impaired lung function * Lung fibrosis or accumulation of fibrous tissue in the lung * Breathing problems * Tight chest * Wheezing * Lung opacities * Pleural thickening
22045	The fundamental symptom of Labyrinthitis is concerned with problems related to controlling balance. Other significant manifestations include the following: * Loss of hearing * Tinnitus- the perception of sound in the ear without existing sound coming from outside. * Rotational vertigo * Linear vertigo * Nausea * Rapid involuntary movement of the eye * Feeling of being pinched by pins and needles
22046	The signs and symptoms of lactose intolerance typically begin 30 minutes to two hours after eating or drinking foods that contain lactose. Common signs and symptoms include: diarrhea, nausea, abdominal cramps, gas, and bloating.
22047	With mastitis, signs and symptoms can appear suddenly and may include: breast tenderness or warmth to the touch; general malaise or feeling ill; swelling of the breast; pain or a burning sensation continuously or while breast-feeding; skin redness, often in a wedge-shaped pattern; and ever of 101 F (38.3 C) or greater.
22049	Symptoms are usually mild but may sometimes be severe. The severity of symptoms does not correlate with the level of lactose malabsorption. Instead, symptoms relate to a range of factors, including ethnicity, age and how is the food digestion.
22050	In Lafora disease, the first symptoms usually appear during the adolescent periods. The presentations include: * Drop attacks * Seizures * Myoclonus- brief, involuntary twitching of a particular muscle or any group of muscles; also known as progressive myoclonic epilepsy. * Gross incoordination of muscle movements; also known as ataxia * Severe dementia that quickly progresses
22051	Autonomic symptoms of Lambert-Eaton Myasthenic Syndrome includes dry mouth, impotence or reduced or loss of reflexes. Clinical findings may reveal progressive weakness without the involvement of respiratory and face muscles. The most affected parts are the proximal parts of the legs and arms. Patients may also suffer from muscular pain and tenderness. Other associated symptoms include: * Sensory neuropathy * Difficulty in urinating * Constipation
22052	Infants are born covered with a transparent membrane, which are then shed within 10 to 14 days after birth. After the shedding process, the significant symptom of Lamellar Ichthyosis appears. Red, scaly skin patches then appear which is believed to be caused by thickening of the skin (hyperkeratosis). Other manifestations of lamellar Ichthyosis: * Rapid growth of hair and nail * Small ears * Inflexible fingers or impaired finger mobility * Eyelids or lips turned outwards * Inelastic skin * Scarring alopecia * Thin eyebrow * Itchy sensation (Pruritus)
22053	The symptoms related to Landau-Kleffner syndrome may include any or all of the following manifestations: * Behavioral changes - for example, a normal growing child will suddenly lose their language skills. * Clinical seizures * Electrographic seizures * Abnormal electroencephalogram (EEG) * Aphasia * Attention disorders like hyperkinesias, an example of attention deficit disorder * Comprehension difficulties
22054	Patients with Landouzy-Dejerine muscular dystrophy often develop symptoms during childhood, but only remains to be obvious when they reach their adolescence. When noticed, these are the symptoms that are associated with this muscular disorder: * Sensorineural loss of hearing * Drooping eyelid * Decreased facial expression * Angry facial expression * Difficulty in pronouncing the letters M,B,and P * Deficit in turning the ankle and toes upward (Foot drop) * Abnormal heart rhythm * Asymmetrical weakening of the skeletal muscles * Stomach muscles weakening heading to the legs
22055	The signs and symptoms of Langer-Giedion syndrome include the following: * Short stature * Unique facial features * Mild to moderate learning difficulties * Small head * Bony growths usually visible from the bone surfaces * Fine scalp hair * Large ears * Bulbous nose * Deep-set eyes * Missing teeth * Elongated and narrow nose * High and broad eyebrows
22056	Langerhans cell histiocytosis exhibits the following signs and symptoms: * Inflammatory responses like pain, fever, localized swelling * Reduced awareness of the environment and reduced alertness * Unexplainable weight loss * Localized bone degeneration * Skin rash that appear as scaly erythematous * Excessive drinking of water due to periods of excessive thirst * Increased urination * Loss of appetite * Anemia and blood cell deficiencies * Inadequate or interrupted physical growth * Cough * Difficulty in breathing * Swollen lymph glands * Fatigue
22057	For mothers bearing fetus with Laparoschisis, an echo sonogram would create an image of a fetus with a protruding abdomen, essentially because the intestine are extending beyond the abdominal wall. Through the opening in the abdomen; as a result of incomplete formation or development of the abdomen of the fetus, intestines and sometimes even other abdominal contents will find its way of the fetal abdominal cavity. Worse scenario would reveal abdominal contents floating in the amniotic fluid.
22058	The fundamental indication of Laron-type dwarfism is excessively short-stature. However, there are also other symptoms that are associated with this disorder. The following are some of the features of this syndrome: * Prominent forehead * Depressed nasal bridge (saddle nose) * Obesity features in the trunk * Under-developed jaw * Remarkable small penis (micropenis) * Seizure caused by hypoglycemia ( excessively low blood sugar level) * Small feet * Small hands * Reduced or superior intelligence * High-pitched voice * Delayed bone age * Tooth eruption is overdue
22059	Larsen syndrome is characterized and identifiable by means of the following fundamental symptoms: * Remarkably odd facial appearance * Non-tapering fingers that are cylindrical in shape * Dislocation occurring in multiple joints * Foot deformities Some cases of Larsen syndrome manifests the following less common symptoms along with the fundamental symptoms: * Cleft palate * Abnormalities in the heart * Hearing impairment * Mental retardation * Short stature * Other anomalies in the skeletal aspect * Prominent forehead * Widely spaced eyes * Saddle nose * Joint hypermobility * Kyphoscoliosis * Fused carpal and tarsal bone * Broad thumbs * Undescended testes * Ocular hypertelorism * Cleft lift may also occur in some patients
22060	People suffering from laryngeal cancer experience progressive degeneration of their vocal functions, beginning from sore throat and frequent laryngitis. Perforation of the larynx may occur.
22061	A factor that determines the rate of occurrence of the symptoms of Laryngeal carcinoma depends of the site and size of the tumor. The following are some of the manifestations of Laryngeal carcinoma: * Hoarseness or noticeable change in voice * An evident or observable swelling in the neck * Producing a high-pitched sound known as stridor * Sensation that there is blockage in the throat * Bad odor in the breath (halitosis) * Pain in the ear (Otalgia) * Relentless coughing
22062	Laryngeal Papillomatosis is manifested by the following symptoms: * Difficulty in breathing or any kind of shortness of breath especially when sleeping * Difficulty in swallowing (dysphagia) * Hoarseness of voice * Persistent cough that has been present for a long time * Remarkable change in voice * Rapid breathing
22063	The most common symptoms of laryngitis: Hoarseness, Feeling a tickle in your throat, the urge to constantly clear your throat, Fever, Cough, Congestion.
22064	The symptoms of Laryngocele include the following: * Noisy or loud breathing (wheezing) * Sudden change in voice ( Hoarseness) * Mass located in the neck However, there is a possibility that Laryngocele can be asymptomatic; meaning no evidence or slight symptom is presented even if you have acquired the disease.
22065	Just like other medical conditions associated with the throat, similar symptoms are manifested by Laryngomalacia including squeaking noise upon inhalation that can be described as high-pitched (inspiratory stridor). Infants most probably will experience difficulties in feeding. Most common symptoms are breathing difficulties.
22066	Among the symptoms of larynx cancer are sore throat, laryngitis, loss of voice, croup and diphtheria.
22067	Incubation period of Lassa fever is from 6 to 21 days, after which an acute disease develops affecting multiple organs of the human body. Non-specific symptoms of Lassa fever include the following: * Fever * Facial swelling * Muscle fatigue * Inflammation of the conjunctiva (conjunctivitis) presenting pink or red eyes * Mucosal bleeding Lassa fever is a disease that involves multiple organs of the body. Additional symptoms affecting body organs vary depending on which structure is involved: * If the gastrointestinal tract is involved, symptoms including nausea, bloody vomit, bloody diarrhea, stomach ache, constipation, swallowing difficulties, and hepatitis is likely to occur. * If the involved organs are those within the cardiovascular system, pericarditis, hypertension, hypotension or abnormally high heart rate (tachycardia) will be manifested in the patient. * Respiratory tract involvement may bring symptoms like dyspnea, pharyngitis, pleuritis, chest pain, or cough is likely to develop. * Unilateral or bilateral hearing impairment, meningitis, seizures, or encephalitis are symptoms that will appear when the nervous system is involved.
22069	Pain on the outer part of elbow (lateral epicondyle), Point tenderness over the lateral epicondyle a prominent portion of the bone on the outside of the elbow, Gripping and movements of the wrist hurt, particularly wrist extension and lifting movements, Activities that use the muscles that extend the wrist are characteristically painful. Another is morning stiffness is common.
22070	Latex allergy can be mild or severe, with symptoms such as: Itchy, red, watery eyes, sneezing or runny nose, Coughing, Rash or hives, Chest tightness and shortness of breath, Shock
22071	Among the symptoms of the disease are lattice-like deposits in the eye, as well as reduced or blurred vision.
22072	The disease affects almost all organs of the human body from head to foot. Among the symptoms displayed by the Laurence-Moon-Bardet-Biedl syndrome are retinal abormalities, reduced sense of smell, and webbing of fingers and toes. Fibrosis sometimes occurs in the gastrointestinal system, while organs in the excretory and repropductive systems also experience problems such as urogential sinuses, uterus complex and hypoplasia. Other victims of the disease show signs of mild autism and/or obesity.
22073	Lazy eye is marked by an eye that wanders inward or outward. The eyes may not seem to work together. When the eyes aren't aligned, poor depth perception is possible as well.
22074	Symptoms of the disease are often unnoticed, but damages in the heart, liver and retina may be considered as signs of LCHAD deficiency.
22075	The signs and symptoms of lead poisoning in children are nonspecific and may include: Irritability, Loss of appetite, Weight loss, Sluggishness, Abdominal pain. While for adults symptoms are: Pain, numbness or tingling of the extremities, Muscular weakness, Headache, Abdominal pain, Memory loss.
22076	Vision loss is the first symptom that develops in the disease. Weeks later, bundles of vessels that look like edemas are found in the eye.
22077	Among the first symptoms of the disease is reduced or blurry vision. In a few weeks' time, edema-liked bundles of fibers start to develop in the eye, affecting the retina and causing extreme pain and irritation.
22078	Symptoms of Leber's Disease include visual loss beginning from one eye followed by the other. Swollen peripapillary vessels soon develop, leading to loss of color vision as well as a cecocentral scotoma which can be found during field tests.
22079	The first symptom that arises in the disease is vision loss. Several weeks later, an edema-looking bundle of vessels can be found in the eye, which causes pain and eventual blindness.
22080	The first symptom found in the disease is reduced to total loss vision. After a few weeks, edema-liked fibers begin to develop in the eye, causing pain and discomfort.
22080	The first symptom found in the disease is reduced to total loss vision. After a few weeks, edema-liked fibers begin to develop in the eye, causing pain and discomfort.
22081	Symptoms of the disease include corneal opacities, proteinuria, renal failure and target cell hemolytic anemia. The fish eye disease meanwhile only exhibits progressive corneal deterioration.
22082	Symptoms of the disease include a lump on the sole of the foot. It's usually painless, and the patient only feels pain when the nodule rubs on the floor or shoe.
22083	People with left heart failure usually suffer from shortness of breath, difficulty to lie down, palpitations, irregular heartbeat, fatigue and weakness. Others tend to be overweight.
22084	Abnormal processing of electrolytes essential elements and chemical substances your body needs for basic functions by muscles. Almost everyone has experienced leg cramps occasionally. But it occurs most often to older adults.
22085	Like other respiratory diseases, Legionellosis show signs of fever, chills, and cough. Others meanwhile experience extreme muscle pain, headache, lethargy and loss of appetite. Medical tests also display deranged electrolytes, renal and liver functions as well as hyponatremia.
22086	Symptoms of the disease include the inability of the person to control body movements, loss of appetite, irritability, seizures and vomiting.
22089	Patients with Leishmaniasis often suffer from skin sores months after incurring the parasites.
22090	Among the symptoms of Lemierre's syndrome are fever, sore throat and lethargy. The patient also loses his general strength and suffers from swollen lymph nodes in the cervix.
22092	Lentigo simplex appear as brown to almost black, small spots (macules), usually 3 mm or smaller in diameter and can occur anywhere on the body, including areas that are not exposed to sunlight. With even distribution of color, the edges (margins) may be smooth or somewhat jagged.
22093	Typically appearing on areas exposed to natural or artificial UV light, solar lentigines appear as well-defined, light brown to black, flat spots. Solar lentigines may also occur in areas of the skin not exposed to UV light to people who have been treated with a form of UV light therapy called PUVA.
22095	Persons affected by the disease suffer from large patches of lesions that soon affect the whole limb where they have developed. Among the other symptoms of leprosy include nodules, thickened dermis and nose bleeding. Patients also lose their sensitivity to the pain brought about by the lesions.
22096	Signs of the disease include vasculitis and eventual disseminated intravascular coagulation. Other indications of leptospirosis are reduced urine excretion, unusually dark colored urine, lethargy, loss of appetite, fever and vomiting.
22097	Persons with the Lesch-Nyhan syndrome suffer from overproduced uric acid, impairment in the nervous system such as mental retardation. They also have self-injuring tendencies like finger and lip biting. In some cases, patients have to be strapped on a chair to prevent them from hurting themselves. Other symptoms include severe arthritis.
22098	Symptomps of the disease are seborrhea-like lesions in the skin, hepatosplenomegaly, and lymphadenopathy. It can be fatal when left untreated.
22099	Persons with Leucinosis exhibit conditions such as vomiting, loss of appetite, dehydration, lethargy, seizures, hyptomia and neurological decline.
22100	Among the symptoms of leukemia are high amounts of white blood cells, and low platelet count. Physical signs include frequent bruising, excessive bleeding, and the development of pinprick bleeds. Other signs of leukemia include: fever, chills and night sweats, lethargy, loss of appetite, enlarged liver, bone and joint pains, swollen tonsils and paleness.
22101	Persons with Leukemia, B-Cell, chronic feel almost no symptoms unless an abnormally high white blood cell count. Lymph nodes are also enlarged.
22102	Persons suffering from either type of myeloid leukemia undergo a sudden drop of red blood cells and platelet count. They also experience fatigue, panting, bruising and bleeding, and higher risks of infection.
22103	Afflicted patients usually present with systemic disease, which can range from hepatosplenomegaly, to generalized lymphadenopathy, to skin infiltrates. This is a rapidly progressing disease, and if left untreated, patients may die. The survival rate of patients with chronic T-cell leukemia is slim.
22104	Persons with the said disease already experience bacterial problems during the neonatal period. Diseases such as pneumonia, gingivitis and peritonitis are usual and become life-threatening since the affected infant is still unable to fight against the invading pathogens.
22105	Persons with leukodystrophy suffer from gradual loss of body tone, speech, movement, motor abilities, vision and behavior.
22106	Persons affected with Globoid cell leukodystrophy begin to experience symptoms at age three. They start to suffer from consistent irritabitlity, limb stiffness, eating difficulties, vomiting, as well as slow mental and motor development. Others meanwhile undergo lethargy, spasticity, optic atrophy, deafness and eventual paralysis.
22107	The disease shows signs of motor development difficulties during the infant's first year. Children with metachromatic leukodystrophy often suffer from dementia and mental deterioration, followed by eventual death.
22108	Children affected with leukomalacia show no signs of the said disorder, but they usually succumb to delayed mental and motor development, problems with coordination, vision and hearing. They as well experience bleeding in the cerebral ventricles which may lead to cerebral palsy.
22109	Persons with leukoplakia often bear white plaques in the gums which would last for a number of days. These plaques are often sensitive to salty flavors as well as suddent movements.
22110	Symptoms of the Levator syndrome include pain in the rectum as well as constant pressure and burning sensations in the rectal area.
22111	Symptoms of Lewy body dementia include hallucinations such as seeing animals, shapes and people. Other symptoms may include slowed movement, shuffling walk, rigid muscles, tremors, confusion, memory loss, depression, decrease in awareness and delusions.
22112	Mental decline reduced alertness and lowered attention span. Recurrent visual hallucinations, commonly related to people or animals. These hallucinations occur in 80% of LBD patients, often at night. Few response to antipsychotic medications known as neuroleptics, which are usually given to people with mental health problems. In the case of a Lewy Body Disease patient, but, this class of drugs may actually amplify rigidity and confusion, and can even cause sudden death. Increasing problems holding the tasks of daily living. Repeated falls, Sleep disturbances, including insomnia and acting out dreams.
22113	Signs of having LGCR include learning difficulties, abnormal facial features as well as abnormal skeletal abnormalities. Some patiens also have fine ears, eyes and skalp.
22115	Signs and symptoms of lice include: intense itching; lice on the scalp, the body, clothing, or pubic or other body hair; lice eggs (nits) on hair shafts (nits resemble tiny pussy willow buds and can be mistaken for dandruff, but unlike dandruff, they can't be easily brushed out of hair); and small, red bumps on the scalp, neck and shoulders.
22116	Lichen nitidus appears as numerous skin-colored, shiny papules on the skin. The pinpoint- to pinhead-sized bumps typically appear in clusters and may resemble warts. Papules most often occur on the following skin surfaces: body trunk, legs and forearms, and genitalia.
22117	The disease usually exhibits pruritic, planar, polygonal, purple papules commonly found in the wrist and ankle. The rash also heals with bluish black discoloration that stays on the skin for a long time.
22118	Oral lichen planus may cause one or more of the following signs and symptoms in the mouth and throat: small, pale raised areas or bumps that form a lacy network on the tongue or inside the cheeks; shiny, red, slightly raised patches on the tongue or cheeks; red, open sores in the mouth; pain, tenderness, burning or itching in the mouth; dry mouth; and a metallic taste or a blunted taste sensation
22119	Early in the disease, small, subtle white spots arise. These areas are often slightly shiny and smooth. As time goes on, the spots grow into bigger patches, and the skin surface becomes thinned and crinkled. As a result, the skin breaks easily, and bright red or purple discoloration from bleeding inside the skin is common.
22120	Signs and symptoms of neurodermatitis include: itchy skin in a single limited area; leathery or scaly texture to the skin; and raised, rough patch that is red or darker than the rest of the skin.
22122	Children affected by the Liddle syndrome do not feel any kind of syndrome at first, and the disease is only determined when hypertension results show after undergoing a medical exam.
22123	Symptoms generally include pain, tenderness, and swelling in the injured area. Movement may be difficult for the patient.
22124	Symptoms of the disease include muscle weakness, extereme muscle pain. cardiomyopathy, myotonia, and elevated serum CK.
22125	Lip cancer symptoms tend to develop slowly and may sometimes resemble those of other conditions. Common signs of carcinoma in the lips include: initial weakening of the line between the red vermilion of the lip and the white skin below the lip; formation of small scaly areas around the lips; soreness or red patches on gums, tongue, and lining of the mouth; lumps or ulcer-like patches around the mouth; swallowing or chewing difficulties; voice changes; bleeding of the lip; and discolored lumps.
22126	The condition may be in a form of a lump or dent in a person's skin after being a spot for syringe injections. It is not really held as a disease, but continuous usage of the same skin area for injections may result to resistance of the body to the drugs injected to it.
22127	Persons affected with the disease have defective gonads (in males), undergo hypoglycemia and hyperpigmentation. They also develop hypertension at a very early age.
22128	A lipoma is a flattened lump and located just under the patient's skin. They often appear in the neck, shoulders, back, arms, and thighs. A lipoma also feels soft and doughy and moves easily with slight finger pressure. Most often, they remain small but can grown large. Lipomas can also be painful if they grow and press on nearby nerves, or if they contain many blood vessels.
22129	Persons affected by the tumor usually complain about a deep mass in their soft tissue. They are also seen signs of rapid weight loss and abdominal pain.
22130	Signs of lissencephaly may be difficulty in swallowing, abnormal facial features, and psychomotor retardation.
22131	In children with lissencephaly, the gyri or convulsions are absent from the brain, thus making its surface appear smooth. Afflicted individuals may have unusual facial structure, swallowing difficulties, failure to thrive, and acute psychomotor retardation. Hands, fingers, and toes may appear abnormal. Patients may also experience seizures and muscle spasms.
22132	There are 4 clinical syndromes identified with listeria infection. The first is infection during pregnancy. In such cases, listeria can spread asymptomatically in the uterus and the vagina. The mother usually becomes symptomatic only in the last trimester of her pregnancy. Fever, headaches, arthralgias, and myalgias are common symptoms. Complications in the form of stillbirth, abortion, or preterm labor may occur. Neonatal infection, which comes in two forms, is another syndrome of listeriosis. The first form is early onset sepsis, wherein listeria is acquired in the utero. This often results in premature birth. The other form, late onset meningitis, is acquired through vaginal transmission. The third listeria syndrome, CNS infection, is characterized by a predilection for the parenchyma of the brain, particularly in the meninges and brain stem. CNS infection may lead to encephalitis, meningitis, cranial nerve palsies, meningoencephalitis and abscesses. Afflicted individuals typically experience changes in mental status, with seizures occurring in roughly a quarter of known cases. The last syndrome, gastroenteritis, is caused by L monocytogenes producing diarrheal disease borne in food. This is usually noninvasive and has a median incubation period of 24-48 hours. Diarrhea can last between 1-3 days. Afflicted patients often experience muscle aches, fever, gastrointestinal nausea or diarrhea, stiff neck, headache, loss of balance, confusion, or convulsions.
22133	As an effect of a certain syndrome, patients with listeriosis also experience the symptoms of the syndromes they had, among of which being infections during pregnancy, CNS infection, gastroenteritis and neonatal infection.
22134	Until a kidney stone moves into the ureter - the tube connecting the kidney and bladder - the patient may not know he has it. At that point, these signs and symptoms may occur: pain in the side and back, below the ribs; fluctuations in pain intensity, with periods of pain lasting 20 to 60 minutes; pain waves radiating from the side and back to the lower abdomen and groin; bloody, cloudy or foul-smelling urine; and pain on urination.
22135	Individuals afflicted with liticaphobia are usually compeled to avoid facing the factors that trigger their fear even if they know those factors are not dangerous. They may also have panic attacks as well as sweating, nausea, and feelings of dread.
22136	Common symptoms of liver abscess include: appetite loss; unintended weight loss; fever; general malaise; nausea; abdominal pain and tenderness; right shoulder pain; chills or shivering; joint pain; jaundice; sweating as well as an enlarged, tender, and painful liver.
22137	Most people do not have signs and symptoms in the early stages of liver cancer, which means the disease, may not be detected until it is quite advanced. When symptoms do appear, they may include some or all of the following: Loss of appetite and weight, Abdominal pain, especially in the upper right part of your abdomen, that may extend into your back and shoulder, Nausea and vomiting, General weakness and fatigue, An enlarged liver.
22138	A lot of symptoms characterize liver cirrhosis, the most common being nail changes, jaundice, hypogonadism, ascites, asterixis and fetor hepaticus.
22139	Liver neoplasms are characterized by tumors either in single or multiple clusters. Other tumors of this kind are poorly define and have an abnormal growth pattern.
22140	Age spots are flat, oval areas of increased pigmentation - typically brown, black or gray. They usually develop in people with a fair complexion but can be seen even in those with darker skin. Age spots arise on skin that has had the most sun exposure over the years, such as the backs of hands, tops of feet, face, shoulders and upper back.
22142	Persons with the Locked-In syndrome cannot move any part of their body while awake, save from eye movement and other organs held by involuntary muscles. They also couldn't speak and become quadriplegic.
22143	Signs and symptoms of tetanus may include: stiffness of the jaw, neck and other muscles; muscular irritability; spasms of the jaw, neck and other muscles; and fever.
22145	Symptoms of the disorder include orbital hypertolerism, aortic aneurysms, and cleft palate. Other ailments shown by people with this disease include congenital heart problems, joint hypermobility, scoliosis and club feet.
22146	Clinical symptoms of Loiasis include lymphatic dysfunction as well as Calabar swellings in the limbs which last for 2-3 days.
22147	The condition affects only females and is very rare.
22152	The most common and evident sign of lordosis is a visible forward spinal curvature of the lower back. The lumbar spine (located just above the buttocks) of lordotic patients typically shows an excessive inward curve. Other common symptoms associated with lordosis are back pain and impaired mobility.
22153	As a neurodegenerative disorder, Lou Gehrig's disease leads to muscle weakness and atrophy throughout the body. When the upper and lower motor neurons degenerate, they stop sending messages to the muscles. As a result, the muscles are unable to function, gradually weaken, develop fasciculations, and gradually atrophy because of denervation. Ultimately, afflicted patients may completely lose the ability to control all voluntary movements excepting eye functions. Lou Gehrig's disease usually spares cognitive functions. However, in certain cases where ALS is correlated with frontotemporal dementia, cognitive function may be compromised as well. Afflicted patients may demonstrate only mild symptoms at the onset of the disease. Twitching, muscle stiffness, cramping, muscle weakness, and a slurring of speech are early signs. From these general symptoms, more obvious weakness or atrophy may cause a suspicion of ALS. To be diagnosed with Lou Gehrig's disease, afflicted patients must demonstrate symptoms of both upper and lower motor neuron damage that cannot be linked to other causes.
22154	Louis Bar syndrome presents with early onset progressive cerebellar ataxia. Dilated blood vessels in the eyes and skin, a condition known as oculo-cutaneous telangiectasia, is another common symptom. Immunodeficiency occurs, often through a decrease in IgA, IgG and IgE levels. Chromosomal instability, hyper sensitivity to ionizing radiation, increased malignancy in the lymphoid, and elevated alpha-fetoprotein levels are also typical symptoms. Additionally, tiny reddish spider veins called telangiectasias usually appear on the surface of cheeks and ears, or in the corners of the eyes. Patients may also experience difficulty in walking. Sometimes, patients develop enlarged bowels or experience appetite loss.
22155	Biphasic fever Depression/anxiety Ataxia Incoordination of the muscles Tremors Paralysis of the posterior Coma
22156	Among the symptoms of low blood sugar are nervousness, shakiness, weakness, anxiety, weight loss and frequent fainting.
22157	Obviously, the primary symptom of low sex drive in women is a low or absent desire for sex. According to some studies, more than 40 percent of women complain of low sexual desire at some point of their lives.
22159	The main complaint of patients suffering from lower back pain is the aching of their coccyx, down to the pelvic area. This condition can last for two to three months.
22160	LSA often presents with pain in the anogenital area (penis, vulva, and rectum). However, any skin site may be affected. LSA is most commonly documented as occurring on the vulva. Some patients are asymptomatic, while others complain of soreness and stubborn itching. LSA can progress to destructive sclerosis, eventually leading to a narrowing of the anogenital orifices. Extragenital areas may also be affected, including the thighs, chest, neck, shoulders, and sometimes even the oral mucosa.
22161	Symptoms are variable for L·es CongΘnita. Manifestations differ according to the type of stage of the disease. Syphilis acquired through direct sexual contact is known as primary syphilis. Within 10-90 days after contact with the infected person, a skin lesion appears at the point of contact (usually in or around the genitalia, but may appear elsewhere in the body). Known as "chancre", the lesion appears as a firm, painless ulceration of the skin, often in the vagina, penis, or rectum. The chancre may persist from 4 to 6 weeks, and often heals on its own. The secondary form of this disease manifests roughly 6 to 8 weeks after the primary infection. Symptoms include symmetrical reddish rashes on the trunk and extremities. These rashes can appear on the palms and soles. In moist portions of the body, the rash develops into condylomata lata, or white lesions that are flat and broad in appearance. Mucous patches may also be seen in the mouth or on the genitalia. These lesions contain treponeme organisms and are therefore infectious. Secondary syphilis is the most contagious form. Latent syphilis does not manifest with signs or symptoms but require proof of the disease through serological testing. Late syphilis is further classified as early or late, the latter being less contagious than the former. Tertiary syphilis occurs within 1-10 years after initial infection. In some cases, it can even take up to 50 years to manifest. Tertiary syphilis is marked by the development of soft, tumor-like balls of inflammation called granulomas. These are chronic and indicative of a failure of the immune system to fight the infection. This stage can have diverse neurological complications, including personality changes, emotional fluctuations, hyperactive reflexes, and Argyll-Robertson pupil. Cardiovascular complications may also occur. Examples are syphilitic aortitis, aortic aneurysm, aneurysm of sinus of Valsalva, and aortic regurgitation. Neurosyphilis, which can occur at any stage, affects the CNS, or the central nervous system.
22162	Luiphobia is a type of phobia characterized by an acute fear of contracting syphilis. By nature of a phobia, this fear is often irrational, intense, and persistent. Individuals with luiphobia may experience an inexplicable, excessive, and utterly unreasonable desire to avoid syphilis. The fear may develop to such a heightened intensity that in order to avoid the infectious bacterium, the afflicted individual can no longer resume normal activities. For example, luiphobic people may avoid public places, obsessively practice good hygiene, and, because syphilis is not necessarily transmitted via intercourse, ultimately avoid any contact with another human being.
22163	Lumbago manifests with mild to severe pain in the lumbar region, particularly at the lower part of the back. The pain may occasionally spread to the buttocks, groin region, or down the back of the thighs. Additionally, the following symptoms may be observed: neck stiffness; difficulty bending forward or leaning back; distinctive change in posture; as well as a tingling sensation or numbness down the back, buttocks, or one or both legs.
22164	Common symptoms of lung abscess are: general malaise (or feelings of being ill); fever; chills; sweating; coughing; the presence of pus and blood in cough; as well as a distinctive foul-smelling odor during coughing.
22165	A shortness of breath (known as dyspnea), coughing up of blood (hemoptysis), chronic irregular coughing, wheezing, and chest or abdominal pains are early signs of lung cancer. Afflicted patients will also experience severe weight loss, fatigue, and loss of appetite. Dysphonia, or hoarsening of the voice, and dysphagia, or difficulty in swallowing, may occur. Rarely, clubbing of fingernails also appears. If the cancer develops in the airways, normal airflow may be obstructed, thus resulting in extreme breathing difficulties. Consequently, this can cause an accumulation of secretions behind the blockage, which may ultimately lead to pneumonia. If the surface of the cancer is fragile, it may bleed into the airway and subsequently coughed up as blood.
22166	If only a small amount of air enters the pleural space, there may be few signs or symptoms, though even a minimally collapsed lung is likely to cause some chest pain. When the lung has collapsed 25 percent or more, one is likely to experience: sudden, sharp chest pain on the same side as the affected lung; shortness of breath, which may be more or less severe, depending on how much of the lung is collapsed; a feeling of tightness in the chest; and a rapid heart rate.
22168	The signs and symptoms of lupus that you experience will depend on which body systems are affected by the disease. But, in general, lupus signs and symptoms may include: Fatigue, Fever, Weight loss or gain, Joint pain, stiffness and swelling. Butterfly-shaped rash (malar rash) on the face that covers the cheeks and bridge of the nose.
22169	The common symptom of this condition is the inability of the blood to coagulate or clot. Persons in this condition are also prone to excess bleeding, thrombosis and repeated miscarriage.
22170	Lupus is considered as one of "the great imitators" because it presents symptoms that mimic those of other diseases. As a result, lupus erythematosus is not immediately diagnosed and is even often mistaken for other afflictions. Initial complaints of afflicted individuals include malaise, fatigue, fever, joint pains, and myalgias. Lupus has dermatological manifestations in the form of thick, red scaly patches on the skin. Other possible signs are alopecia, mouth, nasal, and vaginal ulcers, and skin lesions. Musculoskeletal manifestations of lupus are primarily varying degrees of joint pain, a condition known as lupus arthritis. This type of arthritis is less disabling than rheumatoid arthritis, and rarely causes any severe joint damage. A very small percentage of patients with lupus arthritis will have slight deformities in their hands and feet. Lupus patients may develop anemia and iron deficiency. A common hematological symptom is a decrease in platelet count and white blood cell count. Afflicted individuals may also experience inflammation in various areas of the heart, particularly in the pericarditis, myocarditis, and endocarditis. Inflammation in the lungs may cause pleuritis, pleural infusion, pulmonary hemorrhage, lupus pneumonitis, pulmonary hypertension, chronic diffuse interstitial lung disease, and pulmonary emboli. Some patients may experience neurological symptoms in the form of seizures and psychosis. Other known manifestations include T-cell abnormalities, lupus gastroenteritis, lupus pancreatitis, lupus cystitis, autoimmune inner ear disease, parasympathetic dysfunction, retinal vasculitis, and systemic vasculitis.
22171	Lupus nephritis may be asymptomatic or symptomatic. In asymptomatic cases, affected patients may experience unexplained weight gain, elevated blood pressure, dark foamy urine, as well as swelling around the legs, eyes, ankles, or fingers. Occasionally, patients may also exhibit symptoms that are unrelated to kidney function, including fevers, arthritis, headaches, gastro-intenstinal disturbances, fatigue, and fluids in the joints.
22172	Flat, wart-like lesions appear on the skin, with scaly, hyperpigmentated or hypopigmentated patches. Flat macules and reddish scaly plaques are common signs of this condition. Papules appearing on knees, elbows, and trunk may eventually combine to form bigger plaques. The wart-like lesions are often visible on areas of the skin that are frequently exposed to the sun. Main localization points are the feet, hands, and face. Pigmentation usually affects the trunk of the body, the neck, and proximal extremities. Lesions may invade palms and soles, in the axillae, as well as on the external genitalia.
22173	Lyell's Syndrome causes cell death throughout the epidermis. When the disease damages the keratinocytes, or the cells responsible for holding the skin together, necrosis or uncontrolled cell death occurs. While Lyell's Syndrome may affect many different parts of the body, the disease most frequently targets the mucous membranes, such as the vagina, eyes, and mouth. Severe cases often follow 7-14 days of fever. Symptoms may be similar to those of common respiratory tract infections. Warm reddish rashes usually appear over large parts of the body. Within hours, the skin becomes extremely painful. The epidermis can be easily detached from the underlying dermis. In effect, it would seem as if the afflicted person's skin can be peeled away from the rest of his body. Additionally, blisters appear over the mouth, making feeding difficult. The eyes, too, are affected through swelling, crusting, and ulceration.
22174	In lygophobic patients, aversion to the dark is intensified by imagination. A stuffed toy, for example, may seem like a monster in a dim room. Other otherwise ordinary shapes and forms are construed as dangerous entities in the darkness. It is imperative to note that lygophobia is not fear of the absence of light. Rather, it is the fear of possible or imagined dangers lurking in the shadows.
22175	Acute lyme disease will manifest with reddish "bull's eye" rashes, accompanied by fever, malaise, and pain the muscles and tendons. The characteristic rash is known as erythema chronicum migrans, and may be visible at the onset. The bacteria may be incubated for 1-2 weeks before symptoms first appear. In some cases, the incubation period may be shorter (within a matter of days) or much, much longer (as in months or years). Other symptoms of Lyme disease are cardiac difficulties and neurologic manifestations.
22176	The early symptoms of lymphadenitis are swelling of the nodes brought about by a buildup of tissue fluid and an increased number of white blood cells resulting from the body's response to the infection.
22177	Runny nose, sore throat, fever and other indications of an upper respiratory infection. General swelling of lymph nodes throughout your body, indicative of infections like HIV or mononucleosis, an infection of the glands, or immune disorders, such as lupus or rheumatoid arthritis. Red, inflamed skin over the swollen lymph node, Swollen limb, possibly indicating lymph system blockage caused by swelling in a lymph node too far under your skin to feel. Hardened, fixed, rapidly growing nodes, possibly indicating a tumor (rare)
22178	The most common symptom associated with lymphangiectasia is chronic diarrhea. A decrease in serum protein levels (hypoproteinemia), leading to low oncotic pressure, is also a common indicator. Other indicative signs include pleural effusion, edema of the trunk and extremities, and ascites. With prolonged lymphangiectasia, patients may also experience severe weight loss.
22179	Symptoms often includes shortness of breath or dyspnea, coughing, formation of cyst and pneumothorax or lung collapse, swollen lymph nodes, obstruction of ducts which can lead to lymph fluid or chyle leaking into the chest or abdomen and the presence of a non-cancerous tumor or an overgrowth of tissue called angiomyolipoma.
22180	Lymphangiomas are lymphatic malformations that manifest as distinctive bumps on the skin. They may appear as small bumps or as large intruding growths. Patients with lymphangiomas may experience: raised yellowish or reddish areas of the skin; lumpy pinky-white growths in the mouth; appearance of painless lesions; obstruction of the intestines; as well as respiratory obstruction. In general lymphangiomas are not cancerous.
22181	The most common signs of filiariasis includes elephantiasis or the thickening of the skin and its underlying tissues which are oftenin the lower extremities. Swelling, scarring of the legs and the groin are also the common symptoms.
22182	Symptoms of Lymphedema includes severe fatigue, a swollen limb or localized fluid accumulation in body areas such as the head, neck, legs and arms, discoloration of the skin and eventually the deformity of the affected area.
22183	Lymphocytic choriomeningitis typically manifests with neurological symptoms, including: aseptic meningitis or inflammation of the membrane that surrounds the brain and spinal cord; inflammation of both the brain and meninges (or meningoencephalitis); as well as encephalitis or inflammation of the brain. If affecting pregnant women, the infection may cause mental retardation, chorioretinitis, and congenital hydrocephalus in the infant. Lymphocytic choriomeningitis is very rarely fatal.
22184	Individuals with the condition has extra eyelashes, which may be a full extra set of lashes or an odd extra lash. They are soft and pale but usually cause irritation to the cornea. The development of the extra lashes is due to meibomian gland openings. Individuals also experience leg swelling particularly below the knees. In rare cases, there is also an occurence of cysts on the spine and other spinal column abnormalities.
22185	Its symptoms include the formation of lymph nodes in the mediastinum or the central part of the chest between the lungs which is most commonly affected. Severe coughing is also manifested.
22186	Common symptoms include chronic watery, but non bloody diarrhea which may be continuous or episodic, and abdominal pain or cramps.
22187	During the primary stage symptoms may happen as a painless genital ulcer that happens in the affected area three to twelve days or longer. Then during the secondary stage which happens form ten to thirty days infection has already extended to the lymph nodes, for men genital is unilateral, dorsal penis lymphangitis may also happen and in female cervicitis, perimetritis, or salpingitis may happen as well as the lymphangitis and lymphadenitis in nodes that are deep. As the disease is progressing other symptoms happen which are enlargement of the lymph nodes, enlargement of node, the overlying skin experiences swelling, thinning and complexity.
22187	Specific symptoms of lymphogranuloma venereum vary according to stage of progression as well as the site of entry of the infectious organism (or sex contact site). In general, lymphogranuloma venereum presents with: small painless ulcer on the genitalia or contact site; swelling and redness of skin in the groin area; enlarged lymph nodes on one or both sides of the groin; drainage of lymph nodes into the groin; blood or pus excreted from the rectum; and pain during bowel movement.
22188	After a 3-30 day early development (incubation) period, this is the first stage of LGV where a small painless bump or pus-filled lesion forms (on the penis, vulva, scrotum or in the vagina) that may wear away to form an open sore (ulcer). After 2-6 weeks, the second (inguinal) stage begins where the first lesion appears and consists of painful swelling of the groin or other lymph nodes. Symptoms such as fever, fatigue and chills may be experienced. You may have blood or mucus coming out from the opening to the large intestine (rectum) if the infection is in the anus. Genitoaneorectal syndrome is the third stage of the disease. This stage may be the first time symptoms are seen, particularly in women. Those who have been infected in the anus have rectal infection (proctocolitis), which can cause pain with defecation, scarring and deep boils (abscesses). The lymphatic system may be damages, causing enormous swelling of the genitals as well as draining from scarred areas of the skin caused by deep tissue infection, when the infection is in the genital tract.
22189	Symptoms include painless swelling in the neck, under arm or in the groin area accompanied with fever, chilling, unexplained weight loss and night sweats. These swelling however nonspecifics but they particularly last for days and they persist over time and cannot be explained or treated by normal medications of common infections.
22195	Common symptoms include cough and dyspnea, sputum production, fever, weight loss and malaise. Erythematous macules, papules also shows and extensive lymphocytic infiltration of meninges also are found to patients.
22196	Symptoms often include swollen lymph nodes specifically from the armpit, groin and neck.
22197	People with Lynch syndrome may experience: colon cancer that occurs at a younger age, especially before age 45; a family history of colon cancer that occurs at a young age; a family history of endometrial cancer; and a family history of other related cancers, including ovarian cancer, kidney cancer, stomach cancer, small bowel cancer, liver cancer or other cancers.
22198	Symptoms often include vomiting and diarrhea, poor appetite, growth retardation and enlargement of the liver.
22199	Densed or thickened skull, coarse face, anomaly along the pelvis, chronic inflammatory lung disease and hypertelorism are the common signs of the disease.
22200	Symptoms include regression of learned skills, onset of dementia, loss of motor control and organ enlargement.
22201	Lyssavirus may typically cause the following symptoms: muscle weakness, loss of consciousness, lethargy, general weakness throughout the body, and in severe cases, coma.
22202	It includes early fatigue, painful cramps, weakness of exercising muscles and myoglobinuria. To some, renal failure and increasing weakness and substantial muscle loss are also manifested.
22203	Common symptoms of Machado-Joseph Disease include: speech and swallowing difficulties; spasticity; limb weakness; frequent urination; as well as involuntary eye movements. These symptoms first appear in early adolescence and progress or worsen over time. In some cases, Machado-Joseph Disease might lead to paralysis; however, most affected individuals usually maintain average intelligence or normal intellectual functions.
22204	Symptoms include weakness, fatigue, weight loss and chronic oozing of blood from the nose and gums (Kyle RA (1998). "Chapter 94: Multiple Myeloma and the Dysproteinemias", in Stein JH: Internal Medicine, 5th ed., New York: C.V.Mosby).
22205	Severe enlargement of the tongue is the symptom of the disease.
22206	Common symptoms include blurry vision and the usual yellow deposits in the macula called drusen between the retinal pigment epithelium and choroids.
22207	Its symptoms includes burring of the vision, shadowing or missing areas of the vision, distorted vision, trouble in discerning colors and slow recovery of visual function after exposure to bright light.
22208	Common symptoms includes blurry vision and the usual yellow deposits in the macula called drusen between the retinal pigment epithelium and choroids.
22209	Common symptoms include blurry vision and the usual yellow deposits in the macula called drusen between the retinal pigment epithelium and choroids.
22210	Macular holes commonly begin gradually. Their effects on the central vision depend on the extent and severity of the condition. In general, macular holes may present with: blurred central vision; distorted or wavy vision; reading difficulties; inability to perform tasks that require detailed sight; gray area in central vision; and central blind spot.
22211	Symptoms are mostly neurological. It starts out with myoclonus or the involuntary and irregular jerking movements of a person, changes in behavior and difficulty in coordination and sight.
22212	It has three main types of symptoms, to wit: Venous malformation or hemangioma, Benign cartilage tumor or enchondroma which may appear anywhere in the body; and bone deformities.
22213	Magnesium deficiency may cause a wide range of possible symptoms and pathologies. In general, magnesium deficiency may present with the following: cardiovascular disease; hypertension; vitamin K deficiency; depression, depressed immunity, erectile dysfunction, diabetes, increased levels of stress, migraine, cancer, insomnia, ADHD, fasciculation, asthma, and allergies.
22214	Symptoms includes persistent sensation of motion which is often described as the rocking or swaying which causes difficulty of maintaining balance. Extreme fatigue, difficulty in concentrating, headaches, confusion and anxiety are the most common symptoms.
22215	Malabsorption is a complex syndrome with a wide range of symptoms linked to disorders in the intestinal absorption of nutrients. In general, malabsorption invariably manifests with weight loss, anorexia, abdominal bloating, gas, steatorrhea (or fatty stools), and muscle cramps. Other symptoms are caused by the nutrient deficiency that results from malabsorption, including: weakness, anemia, and fatigue that may develop from a lack of iron, vitamin B12, and folic acid.
22216	Its symptoms include urinary tract infections, pyelonephritis and unilateral enlargement of the kidneys (Dobyan DC, Trong LD, Eknoyan G. Renal malakoplakia reappraised. Am J Kidney Dis 1993; 22:243-252).
22217	The most remarkable symptom of malaria is sudden feeling of coldness followed by rigor and fever and sweating usually lasting for four to six hours; usually occurring in a cyclical pattern. The parasites that causes malaria tend to reproduce within red blood cells; enabling them to produce symptoms like: * Fever * Chills * Nausea * Flu-like illness * Shivering * Joint pain (arthralgia) * Vomiting * Lightheadedness * Shortness of breath * Anemia due to the release of hemoglobin into the surrounding plasma (caused by breaking open of RBC or hemolysis) * Increased amounts of hemoglobin present in the urine (hemoglobinuria) * Convulsions * Other cases may produce tingling sensation in the skin
22218	The most common sign of breast cancer for both men and women is a lump or thickening in the breast. Usually the lump does not hurt. Some male breast cancer symptoms include: Skin dimpling or puckering, Development of a new retraction or indentation of the nipple. Changes in the nipple or breast skin, such as scaling or redness, Nipple discharge
22219	During puberty, male hypogonadism may slow growth and affect development. It can cause: decreased development of muscle mass; lack of deepening of the voice; impaired growth of body hair; impaired growth of the penis and testicles; excessive growth of the arms and legs in relation to the trunk of the body; and development of breast tissue (gynecomastia).
22220	Among the symptoms men can experience during male menopause are weakness, depression, fatigue, and sexual problems.
22221	17-beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase deficiency-3 has clinical manifestations of indefinite and unclear external genitalia that can appear as a large clitoris or small penis or complete female genitalia at birth. This is a result of the male sexual differentiation impairment in 46, XY persons. Complete absence of male sexual differentiation can result to the development of female external genitalia. Prior to detection, these children will be brought up and nurtured as females.
22222	Individuals suffering form malignant fibrous histiocytoma experience the following symptoms: * Appearance of a swelling or soft tissue lump that is not easily noticed because of absence of pain. * Difficulty in walking or gait problems (limping) * Difficulty using a part of a limb * Pain caused by compressed nerve * Pain due to compressed muscle Spreading of the cancer (metastasis) does not follow a uniform pattern; depending on the type of cancer. Though, occurrence is prevalent to be existing in the extremities, there is also a possibility that the cancer itself can spread in any part of the body like the lungs and head.
22223	The signs and symptoms of malignant hyperthermia is a step-by-step occurrence that starts to present with muscle rigidity, followed by a hypermetabolic condition marked with increased oxygen consumption and increased carbon dioxide production, metabolic acidosis, rapid heartbeat (tachycardia), and a remarkable increase of body temperature. It will then be followed with muscle cells breakdown.
22224	Mallory-Weiss syndrome usually presents with occurrences of vomiting up blood (hematemesis) usually after forceful vomiting or throwing up. Sometimes, it can also be noticed as blood in the stool, referred to as melena even without any incident of forceful throwing up. The following are associated symptoms of Mallory-Weiss syndrome: * Esophageal bleeding * Vomiting The bleeding is not continuous; it usually subsides within a few hours commonly lasting from 24-48 hours.
22225	Symptoms of malonic aciduria usually appear in early childhood; generally related to delayed development in many aspects of growth. The following are some additional significant symptoms that may indicate Malonic Aciduria: * Hypotonia or weak muscle tone * Diarrhea * Seizure * Vomiting * Hypoglycemia or low blood sugar level * Cardiomyopathy, a heart condition causing heart muscle weakening and enlargement * High urine levels of Malonic acid
22226	The deficiency usually appears during the patient's early childhood delaying the development. The patient also has weak muscle tone, seizures, diarrhea, vomiting, and low blood sugar. The patient may have a weak and enlarged heart muscle.
22227	Malouf syndrome manifests one or more of the following symptoms: * Mental retardation, which is characterized by slow basic motor learning and language skills during childhood and extensively-below normal intellectual capacity during adulthood. * Ovarian dysgenesis or the failure of the ovaries to achieve normal development. * Congestive cardiomyopathy- a heart muscle disease. * Broad nose * Blepharoptosis or drooping of the eyelid due to weakened eye muscles. * Bone abnormalities * Marfanoid habitus marked by long and thin limbs completing long stature, thin subcutaneous fat, abnormally long and slender fingers referred to as "spider fingers" (arachnodactyly), narrow face, small chin, poor muscle tone (Hypotonia), large testes, and joint hyperextensibility. * Reduced body hair * Delayed puberty * Abnormal ovaries
22228	Most of the symptoms of the disease are vague; patients exhibit fever, chills and weakness.
22230	Mammary duct ectasia is one of the most frequent causes of abnormal nipple discharge. Although it usually doesn't cause signs and symptoms, some women may experience: a dirty white, greenish or black nipple discharge; tenderness in the nipple or surrounding breast tissue; redness; a lump or thickening; and an inverted nipple.
22231	Symptoms of bipolar manic disorder usually become noticeable during early adulthood. The following are some of the significant manifestations of manic disorder, bipolar: * Excessive and exaggerated mood alterations (mood swings). * Cycles between feeling extremely good and depression. * Continual changes in sleep and activity.
22232	Mannosidosis exhibits complex clinical symptoms like the following: * Unusual facial features including: 1. Coarse face 2. Flattened nose bridge 3. Small nose 4. Wide mouth 5. Enlarged tongue 6. Large head 7. Widely spaced teeth * Mental symptoms 1. Mental retardation 2. Mixture of strong and weak mental performances 3. Inability to understand abstracts 4. Restricted vocabulary 5. Delayed ability of speech * Bone and muscular symptoms 1. Weak muscle tone (Hypotonia) 2. Big feet 3. Big hands 4. Bowed femoral bone 5. Tall stature 6. Rigid and deformed spine 7. Back pain 8. Joint destruction * Associated symptoms 1. Immune-deficiency signified by recurrent infections 2. Hearing problems
22233	Individuals inflicted with Mansonelliasis presents the following manifestations but are quite minor and nonspecific: * Itching sensation in the skin * Headache * Swelling in one or more joints * Leg Inflammation * Increased oesinophil count in the bloodstream (hyperoesinophilia) * Hypopigmented macules in the upper trunk, shoulders, and arms
22234	The initial presentation of mantle cell lymphoma is a painless inflammation that can be situated anywhere in the groin, armpit, or neck due to an enlarged lymph node. As the disease progresses, lymphomas may spread in other body organs like the spleen, liver or bone marrow. In some cases, a bowel or stomach disease may develop. Patients inflicted with mantle cell lymphoma may experience unexplainable tiredness and loss of appetite. Associated symptoms of this lymphoma may include: * Unexplained weight loss * Unexplained high temperatures * Sweating during the night usually presenting as cold sweat.
22235	Map-dot-fingerprint dystrophy, which can affect both eyes, commonly presents with: eye pain; blurry vision; photosensitivity or extreme sensitivity to light; excessive tearing; as well as foreign body sensations in the eye.
22236	From early infancy, symptoms of the condition include poor feeding, vomiting, dehydration, lethargy, hypotonia, seizures, ketoacidosis, and neurological decline.
22237	Many manifestations of Marburg fever are similar to other infectious disease like typhoid fever and malaria. Early symptoms of this kind of hemorrhagic fever include: * Fever * Headache * Muscle pain (myalgia) usually lasting for three to nine days; considered as the incubation period of the Marburg virus. * This is then followed by presentation of a papulomacular rash in the trunk. Later stage Marburg fever includes the following symptoms: * Yellowing of the skin (jaundice) * Inflammation of the pancreas (pancreatitis) * Weight loss * Hemorrhaging * Decrease in blood plasma volume (hypovolemic shock) * Dysfunction in more than one organ specifically the liver * Neuropsychiatric symptoms * Delirium * In some cases, external hemorrhaging in bodily orifices (body opening) Once a patient survives, prolonged recovery is expected with the possibility of one or more of the following symptoms: * Inflammation of the testicles (orchitis) * Inflammation of the liver (hepatitis) * Inflammation of the spinal cord ( transverse myelitis) * Inflammation of the salivary glands ( parotitis) * Inflammation in the eye (uveitis)
22238	Marchiafava-Bignami disease presents some or all of the following signs and symptoms: * Remarkable change in a person's mental aspect. * Lack of absence of feeling and emotion. * Involuntary contractions of voluntary muscles (convulsions) * Involuntary trembling (tremors) * Speaking difficulty * Sphincter alteration * Mental confusion and impaired thought (dementia) * Demyelination of corpus callosum. * Stupor * Sensation of increased anxiety and anticipation. * Coma * Fits
22239	* Droopiness of the eyelid and brief eyelid lifting when the mouth is opened are the most remarkable manifestations of a person with Marcus Gunn phenomenon. * The wink phenomenon may be signified when opening the mouth, chewing, sucking, thrusting the jaw to the contralateral side, clenching teeth together, swallowing, or jaw protrusion. * Phenomenon is worse during down gaze. * Strabismus * Decreased vision secondary to amblyopia or lazy eye. The above-mentioned manifestations are usually noticed by parents while the baby is breastfeeding or bottle-feeding.
22240	Marek's disease displays the following manifestation: * Progressive paralysis of one or more of the limbs or sometimes the wing or limbs. * Due to paralysis in the main nerve of the leg, birds become unable to stand, appear uncoordinated, and slowly deteriorate due to loss of water and food. * Eyes may become affected leading to blindness. * Ovaries, liver, kidney, and heart are some of the internal organs that are at a high risk of developing tumors. * Inflamed liver and spleen even without the presence of tumor. * Signs of depression * Weight loss * Loss of appetite * Anemia * Diarrhea In some cases, death is always possible even without the appearance of any symptom.
22241	Marfan syndrome is a connective tissue disorder and since connective tissue is found in all parts of the body, there are a multitude of clinical features associated with the condition. * Skeletal abnormalities 1. Above average height 2. Long slender limbs with long slender fingers and toes 3. Disproportionately long arms with thin and weak wrists 4. Abnormal curvature of the spine (scoliosis) 5. Abnormal indentation of the sternum (pectus excavatum) 6. Abnormal protrusion of the sternum ( pectus carinatum) 7. High palate and small jaws 8. Malocclusions 9. Flat feet 10. Stooped shoulders 11. Abnormal joint flexibility * Heart abnormalities and related symptoms 1. Unjustifiable fatigue 2. Heart palpitations 3. Racing heartbeats 4. Pain in the left chest, shoulder, back, or arm 5. Cold arms, hand or feet due to loss of blood circulation 6. Heart murmur or symptoms of angina 7. Dilated aorta or aortic aneurysm * Eye anomalies 1. Nearsightedness (myopia) and astigmatism 2. Dislocation of the crystalline lens in one or both eyes * Signs and symptoms related to the nervous system 1. Leg pain, numbness or weakness 2. Radiating abdominal pain * Skin 1. Unexplainable stretch marks * Problems related to lung function 2. Shortness of breath 3. Sleep apnea 4. Cyanosis
22242	Marinesco-Sjogren syndrome is commonly noticeable at birth because of poor muscle tone (Hypotonia). Other features of the disorder include: * Balance and coordination problems * Cataracts appearing rapidly during childhood * Delayed motor milestones * Poor linear growth * Pubertal development is likely not to occur due to hypergonadotropic hypogonadism * Mild to moderate mental retardation if present * Slow ill-defined speech (dysarthria) * Numerous skeletal defects like scoliosis Less common features of Marinesco-Sjogren syndrome may include: * Shortening of the fingers or toes due to underdevelopment of the bones in the hands or feet (brachydactyly) * Optic atrophy
22243	There is no single symptom clear enough to identify Maroteaux-Lamy syndrome. An individual inflicted with Maroteaux-Lamy syndrome may develop and display a group of symptoms associated with the affected body part or organ. * Facial features Coarse facial features characterized by enlarged tongue and thickening of the lips and nose, large head, and protruding abdomen. * Neurological presentations 1. Hydrocephalus 2. Drowsiness 3. Headache 4. Behavioral changes 5. Hearing problems 6. Visual anomalies * Respiratory anomalies 1. Noisy breathing and snoring 2. Frequent chest and sinus infections * Bone and joint problems * Heart problems * Abdominal organ related problems like enlargement of the liver or spleen.
22244	Persons inflicted with Marshall syndrome presents distinctive facial features including: * Upturned nose * Widely spaced eyes that makes them appear larger than normal size * Depressed nose (flat nasal bridge) * Flat or retracted midface * Prominent or protruding upper front teeth * Thick lips * Short nose Other associated symptoms may be present like: * Short stature * Nearsightedness or myopia * Opacities occurring in the lens of the eyes or cataracts * An eyes disorder called Esotropia wherein one or both eyes are turned inwards * Hearing loss or impairment caused by cochlear or acoustic nerve problems (Sensorineural deafness) * Absence of frontal sinuses * Forearm bones are bowed outward * Abnormalities in the palate * Early osteoarthritis particularly in the knees * Glaucoma
22245	Specific facial features of a person with Marshall-Smith syndrome include: * Wide and prominent forehead * Protruding eyes that are widely spaced apart * Small and upturned nose * Remarkably small chin * Depressed nose * Shallow orbits * Obstructing tongue * Bluish sclera * Coarse eyebrows Other significant manifestations associated with Marshall-Smith syndrome: * Remarkable mental delays * Failure to grow and thrive which makes them smaller than other children of the same age * Larynx and trachea structural defects resulting to breathing problems * Recurring lung infection like pneumonia * Accelerated bone maturation * Mental deficiency * Motor deficiency * Broad bones in first two finger segments * Narrow bones at the end of the fingers * Hyperextension of neck * Umbilical hernia
22246	Among the symptoms of Martin-Bell syndrome are hyperactivity, anxiety and mood swings, hyperextensible joints and attention deficit disorder. Some patients show flat feet and unusual facial features.
22247	Masculinisation often occurs alongside hirsutism, or increased hairiness in women, particularly in areas that do not typically have hair in females. Facial hair growth, body hair growth, and male pattern hair growth are common symptoms. In addition, masculinisation may also present with: female infertility; menstrual cessation; deepening of the voice; distinct changes in body shape; shrinking breasts; loss of scalp hair; increased muscle mass; and weight gain.
22248	Individuals inflicted with mast cell disease usually presents the following signs and symptoms: * Itching * Bone and joint pain * Muscle pain * Abdominal discomfort * Nausea * Vomiting * Diarrhea * Ulcers in the stomach * Lesions in the skin that are usually popular and itchy when stroked * Headache * Flushing * Shock * Faintness * Inappropriately low blood pressure * Runny nose (rhinorrhea) * Wheezing * Dizziness * Brown skin patches * Low volume of white blood cells (leucopenia) * Reduced blood platelet count * Enlarged liver * Enlarged spleen
22249	The most common type of breast pain is linked with the menstrual cycle and is nearly always hormonal. Some women start to have pain around the time of ovulation which continues until the beginning of their menstrual cycle. The pain can either be almost unnoticeable or so severe that the woman cannot wear tight-fitting clothing or tolerate close contact of any kind. The pain may be felt in only one breast or may be felt as a radiating sensation in the under-arm area.
22250	Symptoms of Mastitis are the following, to wit: swelling, redness and tenderness of the breast of one breast, usually the one used for breastfeeding, burning sensation while breastfeeding or even after and fever.
22251	In rare cases, the body's immune system is affected showing symptoms characteristic to allergies like itching, abdominal cramps, and anaphylaxis. The patient may also experience skin lesions, bone/muscle pain, nausea and vomiting or, very low blood pressure and faintness
22251	In some rare cases chemicals released by mast cells cause changes in the immune system leading to typical allergy symptoms such as: Itching, Abdominal cramping, Anaphylaxis (shock from allergic or immune causes), When too many mast cells exist in a person's body, the additional chemicals can cause: Skin lesions, Abdominal discomfort, Episodes of very low blood pressure (including shock) and faintness, Bone or muscle pain, Nausea and vomiting
22252	Typical symptoms and signs of the infection include pain and tenderness in the mastoid region with visible swelling. There is of course ear pain as well as fever and even headaches can also occur. Babies and infants usually manifest nonspecific symptoms, such as diarrhea, anorexia, and irritability. Drainage from the ears can happen in more serious cases.
22253	A patient with beta-ketothiolase deficiency may experience vomiting, dehydration, trouble breathing, extreme tiredness, or convulsions, which could result in a coma. Infection, not eating, or certain types of stress can trigger these attacks. A person with hypermethioninemia may not show signs of the disorder. But some individuals may demonstrate neurological problemsa and delays in motor skills. Their breath, sweat, or urine may also smell like boiled cabbage.
22254	Maternal death is death that occurs while a woman is pregnant or within 42 days after her pregnancy was terminated, arising from complications related to the pregnancy itself but not from any accidental/incidental causes.
22255	Some patients may experience hyperglycemia and the common symptoms of diabetes, which include increased thirst and urination. Other patients however, do not experience the symptoms but may have been accidentally diagnosed through the discovery of high glucose during testing for other reasons, or screening of a diabetic patient's relatives. Mild hyperglycemia may also be discovered in pregnant women during a routine glucose tolerance test.
22256	Victims of McArdle disease experience exercise intolerance complemented with myalgia, resultant stiffness of exercising muscles, and early fatigue, which are sometimes relieved by rest. The typical cycle that a patient goes through normally starts with fatigue, then after resting, are able to recover their strength again; this is explained by the fact that at this point, the body is now using fatty acids as an energy sources for the body's muscles which explains the renewed strength. Another common symptom is a red to brownish urine which may be a sign of rhabdomyolysis which isthe breakdown of muscle tissue. This has to be avoided because myoglobinuria can damage the kidneys
22257	Patients have bone fracture and deformed legs, arms, and skin. They also have abnormal skin pigmentation and reaches puberty prematurely with rapid growth rate.
22258	The typical symptoms of the disease include a fever that lasts for at least three days, along with coughing, a runny nose and and conjunctivitis. An examination of the mouth may reveal what are called Koplik's spots but these are temporary and may disappear within a day or two of appearing. Then the classic measles rash appears several days after the fever, starting from the the head before spreading other parts of the body and are often itchy. The color of the rash changes accordingly.
22259	Typical symptoms include renal cystic dysplasia, malformations of the central nervous system and the developmental of hepatic defects. In almost 60% to up to 80% of all cases, there is the presence of Occipital Cepholocele. A small number- 55% of all cases exhibit post-axial polydactyly. There is also the shortening of the limbs in a majority of cases.
22260	Symptoms of the Medial Tibial Syndrome or the Shin Splints includes the following: soreness accompanied by the swelling and pain in the inner part of the lower leg.
22261	Vital signs that can be associated to mediastinal fibrosis would generally show tachycardia and fever. Severe cases involved sepsis, and hypotension requiring patients' large volumes of vasopressor or crystalloid medications. Other key indicators include instability, sternal pain, local cellulities may be experienced.
22262	Signs and symptoms associated with Mediterranean anemia include shortness of breath, bone deformities usually occurring in the face, dark urine, protruding abdomen, weakness, fatigue, and slow growth. Like all other medical conditions, the symptoms would depend on the severity of the disease.
22263	Symptoms come in seven forms and which are experienced by almost 90% of all patients before they reach 20 years old. Symptoms develop over 2-4 hours and can last anytime between 6 hours and 4 days. These include fever, abdominal pain, joint pain, chest attacks along with pleuritis, scrotal attacks, myalgia and Erysipeloid.
22264	Significant symptoms manifest when the disorder deteriorates into fatty acid buildup, and metabolic conditions such as hypoglycemia and hyperammonemia. When this happens, typical symptoms include vomiting and extreme lethargy.
22265	Symptoms are identified in how they appear in the afflicted age groups which are Infantile, juvenile, and adolescent accordingly. The range of symptoms and characterization is quite expansive, but patients often exhibit such conditions as polyuria or the excessive production of a large volume of urine, polydipsia which is excessive liquid intake, and mild proteinuria which is the the abnormal appearance of protein in the urine. The resulting outcome can be end-stage kidney disease which may make it necessary for either dialysis or a kidney transplant for the patient to even survive. There is also a small number of patients with the diseases who exhibit other symptoms such as blindness, liver problems, mental retardation, and even neurologic involvement in which the cerebellum is affected; these are all manifestations of renal complications
22266	Symptoms are manifested from the secondary increased intracranial pressure that occurs when the fourth ventricle is blocked; this manifests from 1 to 5 months prior to diagnosis. The child-patient tends to be listless, has a cycle of vomiting as well as morning headache which may mislead diagnosis as being gastrointestinal in origin. Afterwards,the child develops this stumbling gait, will frequently fall and will develop diplopia, papilledema, and nerve palsy. At this stage there is loss of facial sensory, motor weakness, dizziness and nystagmus.
22267	Symptoms in people with the disorder initially experience back and joint pain, a restriction or limitation of joint movement and even arthritis all of which appear earlier in life. At some point, acute high tone hearing loss can happen in most cases.
22268	Its symptoms includes the following: unusually swelling abdomen, problem gaining weight, failure to absorb nutrients and colon infections. For new born babies the problem may manifest through the inability of the infant to release stool especially the first and second day after birth, constipation and gas problems including vomiting.
22269	In babies or children with megalencephaly, the weight of the brain is usually greater than average for their age and sex. Head enlargement may already be apparent at birth and may continue to expand in size through the early years of life. This characteristic head enlargement may appear alongside these common symptoms of megalencephaly: developmental delays; dysfunctions in the brain cortex and spinal cord; seizures and convulsive disorders.
22270	The problem of this anemia is that its symptoms can mimic other blood related conditions. the typical symptoms include; weakened muscles, a feeling of numbness or tingling in the hands and extremities; difficulty in walking; vomiting and nausea; decreased appetite and rapid weight loss; diarrhea; increased heart rate and fatigue.
22271	The main symptoms of the disease are involuntary blinking and chin thrusting. Some patients also also have "laryngeal dystonia" which are pasms of the larynx. The condition tends to affect women more frequently than men
22272	Symptoms includes change in the mole or the occurrence of a different looking growth in the skin, scaling, itching including its bleeding. Ocular melanomas however do not have any signs.
22273	Like most cancers which are asymptomatic, the most crucial aspect is detecting it early. Suspicious looking growths or moles on the skin should be checked immediately especially if changes in size or color occur.
22274	The lips, especially the lower lip, gums (gingival), roof of the mouth (hard or soft palate) and the inner cheek (buccal mucosa) are the most common locations for an oral melanotic macule disease.
22275	These diseases are basically caused by defects in the mitochondrial genome of the cell which is inherited only from the female parent although the disease can appear in both sexes.
22276	The forehead, bridge of the nose, the upper lip and the face, particularly the sides (lateral portions) of the cheeks are the most common sites where dark patches of melasma are found.
22277	Symptoms include skin that is abnormally red in color and develop symmetrical cornification which means that it becomes scaly and really thick. In children who have the disease, other symptoms include nail deformations, hyperhidrosis and the development of lichenoid plaques as a result of excessive sweating.
22278	A patient usually experiences fever accompanied with pain and other symptoms such as cough or pleuritic chest pain which can be suggestive of pneumonia; bone or joint pain that could be mistaken for osteomyelitis, septic arthritis, or even cellulitis. There is also intra-abdominal infection such as liver abscesses. Chronic melioidosis can also even mimic tuberculosis and is actually called "Vietnamese tuberculosis".
22279	The most obvious symptoms immediately indicative of the disease is recurring facial paralysis, the face and the upper lips swell disproportionately and folds and furrows develop on the tongue. Appearance of the symptoms is during early childhood up to early teens. The attacks which are recurring can last anywhere from days to years with the swelling changing in severity. Eventually, the swelling becomes permanent and the lips may harden, crack and become discolored
22280	Symptoms for memory loss vary depending on the type. In amnesia, a person temporarily forgets his or her past for a certain period of time. Senility meanwhile refers to a progressive memory loss experienced by the elderly. Aphasia on the other hand describes the inability to talk.
22281	In most cases, menarche occurs with no discomfort or any apparent symptoms. In some cases, however, the first female bleeding may come with abdominal pain, cramps, and the appearance of secondary sexual characteristics.
22282	The most visible symptom is when because the rugae become enlarged that the surface of the stomach becomes swollen. The over-secretion of mucus causes plasma protein levels to dip; tissues become filled with ulcers; as stomach glands waste away, the body loses much of its albumin protein. Other symptoms include, pain after eating, weight loss, cachexia, peripheral edema, ascites and even anemia symptoms secondary to blood loss.
22283	Patients with carcinoma of the meninges may exhibit the following signs and symptoms: vomiting; seizures; headaches; photophobia or photosensitivity; strange and unexplained behavioral changes; papilloedema; altered state of consciousness; and proptosis. Meningioma themselves, although generally considered benign, can compress the underlying brain tissue and cranial nerves to cause symptoms.
22284	As a rule, the larger the tumor, the more visible are the symptoms and that focal seizures are often caused by meningiomas that overlie the cerebrum. Typical symptoms include spastic weakness in legs that may be progressive and incontinence which may be caused by tumors in the parasagittal frontoparietal region. Sylvian tumors on the other hand cause an array of motor, sensory, aphasic, and seizure symptoms which depend on the location. Gliomas sometimes cause intracranial pressure that may be painful.
22285	A severe headache is the most common symptom of the disease and followed by followed by nuchal rigidity or neck stiffness; this is the classic triad that may confirm meningitis- fever, nuchal rigidity and an altered mental status. Other symptoms commonly associated with meningitis are photophobia which is the inability to tolerate bright light, phonophobia (extreme sensitivity to loud noises), irritability and evn delirium which happens in children and seizures. For infant sufferers, there is swelling of the fontanelle.
22286	The symptoms of the disease include high risk fever, stiff neck, pain in the back, headaches, confusion, rashes and loss of appetite. Infants are usually irritated and are extra sensitive to light.
22287	Symptoms can be misleading even as not all children who exhibit purpuric rash and high fever are positive for the disease until proven conclusively. Symptoms range in severity, duration and order of appearance from case to case. The most significant symptom are rashes which are pinpoint red spots (petechiae); there is high fever as well, a severe headache, nausea and vomiting, a very stiff neck, severe malaise, photophobia or extreme sensitivity to light and changing mental states.
22288	The malformations which normally occur in the lumbar and sacral areas of the spinal cord results in impairment in these specific areas which result to the following conditions or symptoms; paralysis, poor or non-existent bowel movement as well as bladder control, absence of skin sensation, curvature of the spine or scoliosis which depends on the degree and location of the lesion damage on the spine. It is not also unusual to find spina bifida patients with cognitive problems although mental retardation is often rare. Another common problem associated with the condition is known as the Tethered Spinal Cord syndrome, with accompanying symptoms such as leg weakness, lower body pain, incontinence, curvature of the spine and general numbness.
22289	Infected individuals may suffer purple rashes, headache, pain in the muscles and joints, nausea and vomiting, bleeding under the skin, and shock.
22290	The malformations which normally occur in the lumbar and sacral areas of the spinal cord results in impairment in these specific areas which result to the following conditions or symptoms; paralysis, poor or non-existent bowel movement as well as bladder control, absence of skin sensation, curvature of the spine or scoliosis which depends on the degree and location of the lesion damage on the spine. It is not also unusual to find spina bifida patients with cognitive problems although mental retardation is often rare. Another common problem associated with the condition is known as the Tethered Spinal Cord syndrome, with accompanying symptoms such as leg weakness, lower body pain, incontinence, curvature of the spine and general numbness.
22292	Symptoms includes popping sensation especially in the knee, locking of the knee, its swelling and pain.
22293	Symptoms of Menkes disease typically manifest during infancy, and may include: hypotonia (weak muscle tone); seizures; sagging facial features; mental retardation; growth and developmental delays; failure to thrive; subnormal body temperature; as well as a strikingly peculiar "kinky" hair that's often colorless and brittle. Most affected babies are prematurely born. Between the 2nd and 3rd months of life, affected infants may grow normally. However, severe development delays and loss of early developmental skills swill occur soon after.
22294	Symptoms including vasomotor symptoms such as hot flashes and palpitations, psychological symptoms such as depression, anxiety, irritability, mood swings and lack of concentration, and atrophic symptoms such as vaginal dryness and urgency of urination. Along with these symptoms, the average woman also has increasingly erratic menstrual periods.
22295	Menstrual flow that soaks through one or more sanitary pads or tampons every hour for several consecutive hours. Need to use two sanitary protection to control your menstrual flow. The need to change sanitary protection every night. Menstrual periods more than seven days.
22296	Menstrual cramps may be primary dysmenorrhea or secondary dysmenorrhea. The former does not involve any physical abnormality while the latter is caused by underlying condition such as endometriosis or uterine fibroids. A woman experiencing menstrual cramps feels a dull or throbbing pain in the lower abdomen, pain radiating to the lower back and thighs, nausea and vomiting, loose stools, sweating, or dizziness.
22297	Symptoms of mental retardation are numerous. Children who have these particular disabilities may find themselves lagging behind in learning even basic skills such as sitting up, crawling, walking or talking. Other symptoms include problem with mastering speaking skills, memory problems, inability to understand social rules, cognitive inability to understand cause and effect, inability to solve even simple problems, illogical thinking, and persistent infantile behavior and mannerisms.
22298	Common signs of meralgia parenthetica are numbness, tingling, burning, and other sensations occurring on the upper thigh. These sensations typically worsen at night and are relieved during rest. Another symptom of meralgia parenthetica is oversensitivity to touch.
22299	Common symptoms of meralgia paresthetica (burning thigh pain) include: numbness and tingling in the thigh's outer part; burning pain in or on the surface of the outer thigh; and sometimes, dull pain in the groin area spreading towards the buttocks. Meralgia paresthetica symptoms typically occur on only one side of the body and may worsen while walking, standing, or moving.
22300	Merasmus is commonly associated with the condition of "wasting away" for no apparent or ascertainable reason. Common signs of merasmus includes: growth retardation; developmental problems; muscle wasting; lethargy; impaired immunity; vomiting; loss of fat or body mass; and delayed wound healing. Starving is generally considered an extreme form of merasmus.
22301	The first symptoms target sensory perceptions such as vision, hearing and speech; there is also a noticeable lack of coordination. But the type and degree of visible symptoms will depend on such factors as the individual toxin, the dosage taken and the method as well as the duration of exposure. Children who have been poisoned will have very red cheeks and nose, erythematous lips, hair, teeth and nail loss, rashes, muscle weakness, and photophobia. There can also be kidney failure as well as neuropsychiatric symptoms
22302	A hallmark sign of Merkel cell cancer is the appearance of a rapidly growing nodule on the skin. This nodule (or more appropriately, tumor) is painless, and typically appears in shades of blue, purple, or red. Most Merkel cell tumors occur on the face, neck, or head, but may also grow elsewhere in the body. If the cancer has spread to other parts of the body, the patient may experience pain, fatigue, or swollen lymph nodes.
22303	Symptoms of the condition can vary according to whether it is categorized as acute, sub-acute or chronic. General symptoms present include abdominal pain, possible shock and metabolic acidosis, nausea and vomiting, diarrhea, increased heart rate, blood in the rectum and constipation. When one has acute mesenteric ischemia stomach pains may be severe and sudden.
22304	Symptoms includes fever, abdominal pain, diarrhea, nausea and malaise.
22305	The downside is that symptoms only appear about 20 to 50 years after the initial exposure to asbestos. Typical symptoms include shortness of breath, coughing and pain in the chest due to accumulated fluid in the pleural spaces. For peritoneal mesothelioma, symptoms can include weight loss, abdominal swelling and pain due to. Other symptoms are; bowel obstruction, blood clotting abnormalities, anemia, and fever. If the cancer has spread to other body parts, symptoms range from pain, trouble swallowing, or swelling of the neck or face.
22306	Symptoms are not specific and unless a patient presents clear indications for arterial blood gas sampling, the disorder cannot be detected. Other symptoms may include headaches, decreased visual acuity, chest pain, palpitations, altered mental status, nausea and vomiting, abdominal pain, loss or increase of appetite and long tem weight loss muscle weakness as well as bone pains. There is also deep, rapid breathing called Kussmaul respirations which is indicative for those with diabetic ketoacidosis. In its extreme degree, acidemia leads to neurological as well as cardiac complications which can include stupor, coma, seizures and lethargy.
22307	Symptoms of metabolic disorders may be a combination of other disorders that have not been properly diagnosed. Patients may have birth defects, delays in developement and other disorders that may have been misdiagnosed such as autism or conditions that have symptoms similar to metabolic disorders.
22308	Having metabolic syndrome means having a number of several metabolism related disorders simultaneously. These disorders may include: obesity, especially around the waist; elevated blood pressure; elevated level of called triglycerides (blood fat) and low levels of high-density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol; as well as resistance to insulin. Having of only one these symptoms does not entail a metabolic syndrome. However, having one component of metabolic syndrome may indicate a high risk factor to develop others.
22309	Overt symptoms and clinical features of the disorder are; hyperglycemia for diabetes mellitus type 2 or impaired fasting glucose, impaired glucose tolerance, or insulin resistance; High blood pressure; central obesity; decreased HDL or good cholesterol levels and elevated triglycerides. Other associative symptoms that could appear inclue high levels of uric acid, a very fatty liver that could develop into fatty liver disease, iron overload or hemochromatosis and a skin condition called acanthosis nigricans.
22311	Metachromatic leukodystrophy comes in late infantile, juvenile, and adult forms. In the late infantile form, children aged 4 or younger may show: loss of motor development milestones; gait disturbances or walking difficulties; behavioral changes; speech disturbances; swallowing and feeding difficulties; memory loss; vision loss; and seizures. If untreated, children with this form of metachromatic leukodystrophy may die at age 5. The juvenile form affects children between 4-10 years of age, and may present with the following symptoms: mental deterioration; impaired school performance; and dementia. The adult form of MLD, which typically begins after the age of 16, manifests as a psychiatric disorder or progressive dementia.
22312	The most common sign of metastatic cancer is malignant cells spreading to lymph nodes and other sites of the body. Accompanying symptoms usually vary according to the type of cancer involved and severity of the condition.
22313	Affected individuals have dumbbell-shaped morphological structure of the osseous metaphysic.
22314	Methaemoglobinaemia may present with the following symptoms: cyanosis; shortness of breath; changes in alertness and general mental status; headaches; fatigue; exercise intolerance; dizziness; and loss of consciousness. In severe cases, affected patients may develop: seizures, coma, dysrhythmias, and even death. When the concentration of methemoglobin is high in red blood cells, some of the possible complications are anemia and tissue hypoxia.
22315	Methicillin Resistant Staphylococcus Aureus (MRSA) start as small red bumps that resemble pimples, boils or spider bites. These may quickly turn into deep, painful abscesses that require surgical draining.
22316	Appearing in early infancy, the effects or symptoms of the disorder can range from mild to even potentially life-threatening. Infants can experience dehydration, vomiting, hypotonoa, lethargy and may unable to gain proper weight or achieve the appropriate height. These can progress to possible mental retardation, kidney disease and pancreatitis. In some cases, it can lead to coma and even death.
22318	The disorder typically delays development and results in various dysmorphic features and mental retardation among other manifestations. The patient may also fail to thrive.
22319	All of a patient's cartilage areas may be affected. Many cases shows the effect of the disease in several areas where cartilage is found, while other areas are healthy. Examples of cartilaginous parts that may be affected include the ears, nose, throat, heart valves, and all areas in which cartilage connects musculo-skeletal tissues.
22321	Newborns with microcephaly have distinct neurological defects and seizures. The infants commonly have varying degrees of impaired intellectual development. They have motor function disabilities that may only show later in life. The patients may have regular or small-sized heads that would subsequently stop growing even if their face continue to develop normally.
22323	An affected individual has a small brain, small head, mentally retarded, and delayed development.
22325	Patients usually suffer from chronic watery diarrhea, which may be frequent or intermittent. Other symptoms also include abdominal pain or cramps, abdominal bloating, modest weight loss, nausea, fecal incontinence, and dehydration.
22326	Usually pain in urinating may be a symptom of the Microscopic Hematuria. Color in the urine is absent inasmuch as the blood in the urine may be seen through the microscope only.
22327	The disease affects different organs in the body and may generally cause fever and weight loss. The commonly affected organs include the kidneys, skin, lungs, and joints.
22328	Patients manifest different symptoms according to each of the strength of their immune system. Individuals with HIV usually experience diarrhea and weakening of energy.
22329	Microtia patients may have smaller than normal ear or ears and ear canals, partial ear with a closed external ear canal resulting to a conductive hearing loss, absence of the external ear, ear canal, and ear drum, or total absence of the ear.
22330	New born infants affected with the disease experience recurrent and intractable diarrhea, which starts during the first days of life.
22331	Persons experiencing migraine feels a severe or moderate headache usually on one side of the head. It may also be accompanied by nausea and vomiting, and more sensitivity to bright lights and noise. Some people experience a strange light or unpleasant smell before an attack. Other types of migraine are not painful and some symptons manifest in other parts of the body.
22331	A typical migraine attack produces some or all of these signs and symptoms: Moderate to severe pain, which may be confined to one side of the head or may affect both sides, Head pain with a pulsating or throbbing quality, Pain that worsens with physical activity, Pain that interferes with your regular activities, Nausea with or without vomiting, Sensitivity to light and sound.
22332	Symptoms includes appearance of visual disturbances like seeing zigzag lines that floats in to one's vision, blurring of the vision, scotomas or having blind spots and flashes of lights. It may also includes numbness, vertigo and speech difficulties.
22335	Symptoms includes the deficiency in memory, reduced performance on memory tests and absence of dementia.
22336	Symptoms of Milia includes the appearance of the small and white bumps on the infant's nose, chin or cheeks and even in the gums or the roof of the mouth.
22337	Wherever clothing causes friction, adults usually develop heat rash in skin folds and for infants, the rash is mainly found on the neck, head, chest, shoulders and the back, but it can also occur in the groin and armpits. Miliaria rubra causes red bumps that are intensely prickly or itchy, giving rise to its common name, prickly heat, which occurs deeper in the outer layer of the skin (epidermis).
22338	Among the common signs of milk allergy include vomiting, diarrhea, wheezing and hives. Some patients also experience abdominal cramps, skin rashes, runny nose and coughing.
22339	Patients experience muscle weakness that leads to paralysis with sensory or autonomic disturbances. Patients affected with Miller Fisher Syndrome experience facial weakness and abnormality in eye movement.
22340	Individuals with Miller-Dieker syndrome has a distinctive facial appearance and, delayed growth and mental development. They may also have multiple abnormalities of the brain, heart, kidney and gastrointestinal tract. Children affected by the disease fail to grow, have feeding difficulties, and may even die in infancy or childhood.
22341	Symptoms of Milliaria includes occurrence of superficial blisters, reddish lumps and bumbs which is usually itchy and painful at the same time and the occurrence of prickly heat spots. In other form of the Milliaria which usually occurs in adults, symptoms includes the occurrence of goose bumps like flesh colored lesions.
22342	Specific symptoms of mineral deficiency depend on the type of mineral that the body lacks. Insufficient calcium, for example, will cause cramps, brittle nails, osteoporosis, rickets, delusions, insomnia, palpitations, and peridontal disease. Iron deficiency will lead to anemia, confusion, brittle nails, depression, dizziness, fatigue, headaches, constipation, inflamed tongue, and mouth lesions. Other types of mineral deficiencies have unique corresponding symptoms as well. In general, however, most types of mineral deficiencies manifest with: depression and a number of depressive disorders as well as psychosis and a range of psychotic disorders.
22343	The symptoms that indicate the onset of the disease include kidney edema and leakage of protein in the kidneys.
22344	Patients experience fatigue and heart failure. Jaundice may also be apparent in patients.
22345	Mitochondrial diseases might affect the cells of the brain, nerves (including the nerves to the stomach and intestines), muscles, kidneys, heart, liver, eyes, ears, or pancreas. In some patients, only one organ is affected, while the other patients all the organs are involved.
22346	Although mitochondrial diseases are varied, they share a few common symptoms that include weakness and cramps in the muscles, extreme fatigue, gastrointestinal problems, droopy eyelids, paralysis in the eye muscle, degeneration of the retina that may lead to visual loss. Patients also experience seizures and may have impaired balance and coordination as well as delay in learning.
22347	Early signs of the disorder include feeding difficulties, lethargy, low blood sugar, weakness of muscles, and problems of the liver. The patient may also be a high risk for life-threatening incidents that could lead to coma and sudden death. If the disorder manifests in the later stage of an individual's life, the symptoms are less. The person may experience hypotonia, muscle pain, muscle tissue breakdown, and suffer abnormalities in the nervous system affecting the arms and legs.
22348	Patients with the defect have small left heart ventricles, underdeveloped left heart ventricle, closed mitral valve, and shortness of breath. Infants with mitral atresia have feeding problems.
22349	The prevalence of some symptoms of MVP does not have a significant difference from the general population. Some MVP patients may experience heart palpitations, atrial fibrillation or syncope. These symptoms are caused by the mitral regurgitation and are not directly caused by the prolapsing mitral valve. The mitral regurgitation is often a result of the prolapse. MVP patients also tend to have low body mass index (BMI) for still unknown reasons. They are also usually leaner than those without the disease. Individuals with the Marfan syndrome are also known to have frequent occurrences of MVP.
22350	Symptoms may cause patients to experience chest pains, heart palpitations, shortness of breath, atrial fibrillation, or syncope. The symptoms are usually not directly caused the mitral valve's prolapse but by the mitral regurgitation that often due to prolapse. The disease has been linked with anxiety and panic attack disorders. Patients usually have a low body mass index and leaner than normal individuals.
22351	Some symptoms may be asymptomatic but patients generally complain of chest pain, arrhytmias, fatigue, dizziness, low BP when lying down, heart palpitations, shortness of breath, and headache.
22352	Symptoms includes fatigue, lightheadedness, shortness in breathing, coughing particularly when lying down, feet and ankles that are swelling, palpitations, heart murmur and excessive urination.
22353	Symptoms includes the shortness of breathing especially when lying down, feet or ankles that are swelling, shortness of breathing, bronchitis, heart palpitations, coughing which may occasionally be accompanied with blood and chest pains.
22354	Symptoms includes an unusual pain on one side of the lower abdomen.
22355	Most MCTD patients may experience Raynaud phenomenon, arthralgia/arthritis, swollen hands, sclerodactly or acrosclerosis, and mild myositis.
22356	For patients whose cranial nerve VI is affected, reduction of the lateral gaze occurs. On the other hand, patients will suffer from bilateral facial palsy if the cranial nerve II is affected. Bilateral facial palsy is a mask-like expressionless face where the upper lip is often retracted due to muscle shrinkage. Hear loss may be experienced by those whose cranial VII is affected.
22357	Some forms of MODY diabetes cause hyperglycemia and manifest with characteristic symptoms of diabetes itself: polydipsia or increased thirst and polyuria or increased urination. However, other forms of MODY will show no symptoms at all and are accidentally diagnosed when high glucose levels are discovered. In general, MODY diabetes may present with the following symptoms: mild to moderate hyperglycemia; weakened autoimmunity; persistence of low insulin requirement; possibility of cystic kidney disease; and non-transient neonatal diabetes.
22358	There are some forms of MODY that produce significant hyperglycemia and some typical signs and symptoms of diabetes. Among those are increased thirst and urination, also known as polydipsia and polyuria. Many MODY patients however do not show signs or symptoms of the disease and are only diagnosed by accident. For pregnant women, the discovery of mild hyperglycemia during a routine glucose tolerance test is particularly characteristic.
22359	Patients whose cranial nerve VI is affected, a drop of the lateral gaze occurs. Meanwhile, patients will suffer from bilateral facial palsy if the cranial nerve II is affected. Bilateral facial palsy is a mask-like expressionless face where the upper lip is often drawn in due to muscle shrinkage. Hear loss may be occur among those those whose cranial VII is affected.
22360	The symptoms of the disease include muscle stiffness in the limbs and lower trunk, back curves, stiff-legged walk, muscle spasms and extreme weakness.
22361	Babies with this disorder usually have smaller jaw with a small skin tag in front of an otherwise normal-lloking ear. Some have more noticeable differences such as having one very small, abnormally-shaped ear. One side of the face could also look much smaller than the other. A crooked lower jaw or a limited opening of the mouth, called trismus, can also be observed on other patients.
22362	People who suffer from mold allergy can experience the similar signs and symptoms that typically occur in most types of respiratory allergies. This includes sneezing and runny nose, itchy eyes, throat and nose, skin rashes, watery eyes, sinusitis, cough and postnasal drip.
22363	The signs and symptoms of atypical moles provide that they may appear anywhere on the skin and the lesions can vary in size and/or color; they can be larger than a pencil eraser (6 mm) and may have variations in color within the lesion ranging from pink to reddish-brown to dark brown; atypical moles may be darker brown in the center or in the edges (periphery); and people with atypical-nevus syndrome may have hundreds of moles of varying colors and sizes.
22364	Symptoms includes the occurrence of a plain, small and brown spots which occurs in the body's different parts.
22365	Molluscum contagiosum lesions usually appear flesh-colored, dome-shaped and pearly. They also have a dimpled center and are often 1-5 millimeters in diameter, generally not painful but may itch or become irritated. The bumps are not supposed to be picked or scratched since it can lead to further infection and scarring. Eczema develops around lesions in about 10% of MC cases.
22366	Mondini dysplasia may first manifest during childhood or early adult life.
22367	Patients usually experience tenderness and pain. Skin retraction over a cord-like structure is usually noted during physical examination, which extends on to the chest wall.
22368	Headache, dizziness, tinnitus, breathelessness, sleep, disturbance, palpitations, fatigue, mental confusion, anorexia, cyanosis and dilation of veins are the most common signs and symptoms of CMS or Monge's disease.
22369	Alopecia is a common symptom of the disease but the severity varies from person to person. Hair follicle keratosis, follicular hyperkeratosis and nail deformities may also be manifested.
22370	It can cause complications to pregnant of diabetic women. Among the symptoms of the disease are a white, cottage cheese like discharge, irritation and burning sensations outside the vagina. Treatment for the infection is done by vaginal cream or suppositories.
22371	The signs and symptoms of monkeypox are like those of smallpox, but usually they are milder. Another difference is that monkeypox causes lymph nodes to swell.
22372	MGUS does not usually cause symptoms and is usually discovered by accident during laboratory tests are conducted for other purposes. The monoclonal antibody however can bind to nerves and lead to numbness, tingling, and weakness.
22373	Monomelic amyotrophy may exhibit the following symptoms: weakness or wasting of a single limb; weakness in the hand muscles; lower arm muscle weakness; grip weakness; clawed hand; as well as wasting of the hand and arm muscles. In spite of these symptoms, however, monomelic amyotrophy rarely presents with any pain.
22374	Symptoms of the disease often begin with low back or hip pains and spreads to the thigh and knee on one side. Patients describe the pain to be deep and aching with superimposed lancinating jabs that are most severe at night. Other symptoms include numbness, tingling, abnormal sensation, burning pain, difficulty in moving a body part, and lack of controlled movement of a body part.
22375	Signs and symptoms of mononucleosis may include: Fatigue, Weakness, Sore throat, perhaps a strep throat that does not get better with antibiotics, Fever, Swollen lymph nodes in your neck and armpits, Swollen tonsils, Headache, Skin rash, Loss of appetite, Soft, swollen spleen, Night sweats.
22376	Morning sickness some women experience nausea and vomiting only in the morning. The majority of women has nausea on and off, all day long.
22377	Symptoms includes hardening, unusual discoloration and thickening of the affected skin.
22378	Morquio syndrome has an assortment of symptoms. Among them are abnormal heart development, abnormal skeletal development, hypermobile joints, large fingers, knock-knees, widely spaced teeth, large head, bell shaped chest, compression of spinal cord, enlarged heart, and dwarfism.
22379	Morquio syndrome has an assortment of symptoms. Among them are abnormal heart development, abnormal skeletal development, hypermobile joints, large fingers, knock-knees, widely spaced teeth, large head, bell shaped chest, compression of spinal cord, enlarged heart, and dwarfism.
22380	Morquio syndrome has an assortment of symptoms. Among them are abnormal heart development, abnormal skeletal development, hypermobile joints, large fingers, knock-knees, widely spaced teeth, large head, bell shaped chest, compression of spinal cord, enlarged heart, and dwarfism.
22381	Symptoms includes burning pain that occurs in the ball of the foot radiating to the toes and tingling of the toes including its numbness.
22382	The symptoms of morvan disease are hallucinations, disordered sleep, cramps, hyperhidrosis, muscle weakness and pain in the long muscles. In some cases, breathing difficulties have occurred.
22384	Symptoms of motion sickness may include: dizziness, nausea and occasionally vomiting, fatigue, pallor (loss of color).
22385	Patients with damaged upper motor neurone show spasticity, brisk reflexes, and the Babinski sign. Patients with damaged lower motor neurone meanwhile may manifest weakness and muscle atrophy. Said symptoms usually arise between the ages 50-70, which includes progressive weakness, muscle wasting and muscle fasciculations.
22386	Symptoms of the disease usually begin in late childhood or early adulthood. The initial symptom though is foot drop in the early course of the disease and can also cause claw toe, where the toes are always curled. Stork leg or an inverted bottle appearance may result from wasting of the muscle tissue on the lower parts of the legs. Later in life, weakness in the hands and forearms may be experienced by patients later in life. Progression of the disease as well as the symptoms can vary. Some patients' breathing may be affected, hearing, vision, and the neck and shoulder muscles to the others. Scoliosis is also common and malformation of the hip sockets is possible.
22387	Symptoms of the syndrome include recurrent lung infections, raspy breathing, shortnes of breath, and productive cough.
22388	Varying degrees of the involuntary tightening and shaking of the muscles in arm and leg of the dominant side of the infected person is the most common symptom of the disease. More serious cases of attack may include more severe tensing and shaking of the muscles in the dominant side, swelling of the tongue and muscles around the throat, which makes speaking difficult, and blurring of the eyesight. During episodes the infected person may appear to be in a drunken or disabled state.
22389	Symptoms includes sore in the mouth that refuses to heal and rather increases in size, pain the mouth, lumps or whitish/reddish/dark patches in the mouth, difficulty in moving the jaws, lump in the neck, thickening of the cheeks, pain around the teeth and sudden changes in the voice.
22390	In some cases, mouth ulcers start with a sharp burning or stinging sensation at or around the mouth. After a few days, a reddish bump materializes, followed by an open sore. The mouth ulcer itself has a white or yellow oval appearance surrounded by an inflamed reddish border. Sometimes, the lesion may have a white halo or circle around it. Mouth ulcers are often immensely painful, particularly when touched or agitated. A painful swelling of the lymph nodes may also be observed slightly below the jaw.
22391	Moyamoya tends to affect children and adults in the third to fourth decades of life. Strokes and seizures may be experienced by children. Bleeding and strikes can also occur among adults. The disease's clinical features are cerebral ischaemia, recurrent transient ischaemic attacks, also known as TIAs or mini strokes, sensimotor paralysis, convulsions, and/or migraine-like headaches. Moyamoya is also common among women than in men.
22393	A woman with MRKH is hormonally normal, which means she will enter puberty with development of secondary sexual characteristics including thelarce and adrenarche. Ovulation generaly occurs and chromosome constellation will be 46,XX. Affected women typically have shortened vagina and intercourse will be difficult and painful. A fractional absence of the cervix, uterus, and vagina may be revealed in medical examinations, supported by gynecologic ultrasonography. Women with MRKH cannot get pregnant since there is no uterus. In vitro fertilization and surrogacy however are options for them to have a genetic offspring. The disease is commonly found out during a woman's puberty years, when the menstrual cycle does not start. It can also be discovered earlier in some cases when women undergo surgeries for other conditions such as hernia. Less common symptoms of the disorder include kidney problems, hearing loss, and bone malformations.
22394	The common symptom for MWS is inflammation all over the body, which includes, fever, arthritis, and malaise. The chronic inflammation associated with MWS can lead to deafness. Prolonged inflammation can also lead to deposition of proteins in the kidney, a condition known as amyloidosis.
22395	Usually occurring on the lower lip and inner part of the cheek, mucoceles are frequently found in areas of mouth trauma, but they can occur anywhere inside the mouth. Varying in size from ? to 1 inch, mucoceles are usually a single bump with slight bluish or normal skin color and are soft and painless. They may also appear suddenly, while a mucus-retention cyst may slowly enlarge.
22396	Symptoms includes fever, conjunctivitis, rashes, red cracked and dry lips, swollen lymph nodes, peeling of the skin of the hands, pain in the joints, diarrhea, abdominal pain and vomiting.
22397	Physical disabilities, organ and system malfunction, and effects on mental development may be experienced by patients.
22398	Children affected with the syndrome are born without clinical symptoms. Behavior problems usually occur in children older than 2 years while neurological disorder begins among those older than 6 years. Death may happen until after puberty.
22399	Morquio syndrome has an several symptoms and among them are abnormal heart development, abnormal skeletal development, hypermobile joints, large fingers, knock-knees, widely spaced teeth, large head, bell shaped chest, compression of spinal cord, enlarged heart, and dwarfism.
22400	The symptoms of the disease onset vary considerably both within and among the 3 subgroups. Its clinical features actually lie between those of Hurler and Scheie syndrome. Just like the other subtypes, progressive involvement of the various organs and tissues of the body occur.
22401	Appearing mostly in children ages 3 to 8, symptoms include thick coarse facials features with low nasal bridge, halted growth, progressive mental retardation, cloudy corneas, deafness, joint disease including stiffness, heart valve problems, claw hand, and abnormal bones in the spine.
22402	Symptoms of MPS I S may not appear until age 4 or 5. They may include coarsened facial features, increased body hair or hirsutism, broad mouth with full lips, cloudy cornea, prognathism, stiff joints, claw hands, and deformed feet.
22403	The symptoms of Hunter syndrome (MPS II) are normally not evident at birth but they usually start to become obvious after the first year of life. Usually the first symptoms of Hunter syndrome may include inguinal hernias, ear infections, runny noses, and colds. Some kids may also have a large head as well as an enlarged abdomen. Frequent ear and respiratory tract infections continue to be experienced by many while growing up.
22404	Type A symptoms may include coarse facial features and short stature, enlarge liver and spleen, progressive and profound mental retardation, ivory-colored skin lesions of the upper arms and thighs, skeletal changes, joint stiffness, short neck, broad chest, too large head, progressive deafness, and atypical retinitis pigmentosa, and visual impairment.
22405	Morquio syndrome has an several symptoms and among them are abnormal heart development, abnormal skeletal development, hypermobile joints, large fingers, knock-knees, widely spaced teeth, large head, bell shaped chest, compression of spinal cord, enlarged heart, and dwarfism.
22406	Babies normally develop during the first two years but once the build up starts, symptoms would begin to appear on the third year of life. Unlike other forms of MPS, children with the disease do not experience mental retardation. Other physical manifestations include coarse-featured faces, thick nostrils and lips, dwarfism, and claw hand deformities.
22407	Its symptoms are similar to those of Hurler syndrome such as Hurler-like faces, corneal opacity, anteverted nostrils and a depressed nostril bridge, prominent alveolar processes and cleft plate, dysotosis multiplex in the bones, and others.
22408	Mucormycosis frequently involves the sinuses, brain, or lungs as the sites of infection. Whilst orbitorhinocerebral mucormycosis is the very common type of the disease, this infection can also manifest in the gastrointestinal tract, skin, and in other organ systems.
22409	The disorder has characteristic symptoms that may include low birth weight, short stature, and severe progressive growth delays. An abnormally large liver and yellow discoloration of the eyes can also be seen among affected infants.
22410	A woman with Mullerian agenesis is hormonally normal, which means she will enter puberty with development of secondary sexual characteristics including thelarce and adrenarche. Ovulation usually occurs and chromosome constellation will be 46,XX. Women with the disease typically have shortened vagina and intercourse will be difficult and painful. A partial absence of the cervix, uterus, and vagina may be revealed in medical examinations, supported by gynecologic ultrasonography. Women with MRKH cannot conceive since there is no uterus. In vitro fertilization and surrogacy however can make it possible for them to have a genetic offspring. The disease is commonly discovered during a woman's puberty years, when the menstrual cycle does not start. It can also be found out earlier in some cases when women undergo surgeries for other conditions such as hernia. Less common symptoms of the disorder include kidney problems, hearing loss, and bone malformations.
22411	At the onset, multi-infarct dementia manifests with minor strokes along with: mild limb weakness; distorted speech; dizziness; as well as slight impairment to short-term memory. An impaired memory is usually the first sign of this dementia. As the disease progresses, a more distinct dementia may be observed with the following symptoms: problems with recent memory; wandering or getting lost in otherwise familiar places; walking with rapid shuffling steps; disinhibition; loss of bladder or bowel control; emotional liability; difficulty following simple instructions; problems handling money; and cardiac irregularities.
22412	Some patients with mild and infrequent PVCs are symptomatic or do not report any symptoms. Thos with PVS meanwhile report palpitations in the neck and in the chest. Some rare cases may include symptoms such as weakness, dizziness, or syncope (passing out).
22413	The symptoms of MCS range from mild to disabling. Some of the common symptoms reported by patients include anaphylactic shock, difficulty in breathing, chest pains, asthma, skin irritation, contact dermatitis, hives and other forms of skin rash, headaches, and brain fog (temporary memory loss, attention deficit). Neurological symptoms are also possible such as paralysis and restless leg syndrome.
22414	MEN1 patients develop cutaneous tumors but can go unnoticed because they are subtle in appareance. Said tumors include multiple angiofibromas, collagenomas, and lipomas.
22415	Pheochromocytoma may develop among people with MEN2 and can cause a dangerously high blood pressure. A form of thyroid cancer called medullary thyroid carcinoma is the most common sign of MEN2. Hyperparathyroidism also occurs among affected person with MEN2A.
22416	Uneven limb lengths and pain due to multiple exostoses are common among people with HME.
22417	Myeloma affects many organs, making the symptoms vary. Some of the symptoms a patient experiences may be dues to other causes. Some of the common symptoms in decreasing order of incidence are bone pain, infection, renal failure, anemia, and neurological symptoms.
22418	Symptoms of the condition are varied, depending on the organs that have malfunctioned.
22419	Symptoms may include switching identities under stress, a feel that many perople talks or lives inside the head each having their own name, history and characteristics.
22420	A variety of symptoms can be caused by MS including changes in sensation (hypoesthesia), muscle weakness, abnormal muscle spasms, or difficulty in moving. Difficulties with coordination and balance (ataxia), speech problems (dysarthria) or swallowing (dysphagia), visual problems (nystagmus, optic neuritis, or diplopia), fatigue and acute or chronic pain syndromes may also be experienced.
22421	Men affected with the disorder often experiences erectile dysfunction. Both men and women meanwhile commonly encounter problems with their bladders during urgency, frequency, incomplete bladder emptying, or an inability to pass urine. Upon progression, three groups of symptoms predominate and these are parkinsonism, cerebellar dysfunction, and autonomic dysfunction.
22422	The most typical symptom of mumps is the painful swelling of the salivary glands (classically the parotid gland) accompanied with fever. Among men, painful testicular swelling and rash may also occur. Though symptoms are not really severe among children, the symptoms among adults and teens may lead to complications such as infertility or subfertility. The two are relatively common although still rare in absolute terms.
22423	People with Munchausen syndrome deliberately produces or exaggerate symptoms in several ways. Hurting themselves, altering diagnostic tests, and lying about fake symptoms are among the things affected people do.
22424	In mild cases, Murray Valley encephalitis infections rarely produce disease symptoms, and only mild symptoms may be observed, including fever, headaches, nausea and vomiting. However, in cases where the virus infection has progressed to a full-blown disease, it can cause permanent neurological damage and even death. Other symptoms associated with Murray Valley encephalitis include: fever; headaches; vomiting; photophobia; fatigue; malaise; muscle weakness; aches and pains; unsteady gait; disorientation; seizures; sudden severe dementia; memory loss; as well as distinct personality and behavior changes, among others. Approximately 20% of documented cases have resulted in death; and an estimated 50% of survivors have suffered from permanent neurological damage.
22425	Muscle contraction headache is described as a steady, continuous pain felt on both sides of the head. This headache is usually comparable to a tight band around the head or a sensation that both head and neck are wrapped in a cast. Muscle contraction headache usually occurs alongside these symptoms: nausea, a sore scalp, neck aches, blurry vision, and vomiting.
22426	A person has sudden and sharp muscle pain that is usually felt in the legs. The condition may also be felt or seen as a hard lump of muscle tissue underneath the skin.
22427	In this disorder a person is preoccupied with thoughts concerning appearance, especially musculature. Muscle dysmorphia is strictly related with selective attention: individuals selectively focus their attention on perceived defect (too skinny body, underweight etc.).
22428	Symptoms of muscle strain are pain, swelling, bruising and stiffness of the muscle.
22429	Principal symptoms of any form of muscular dystrophy are progressive muscular wasting (weakness), poor balance, frequent falls, walking difficulty, waddling gait, calf pain, respiratory difficulty, muscle contractures, drooping eyelids, gonadal atrophy, scoliosis, and inability to walk. There some types of the disorder that can affect the heart that may cause cardiomyopathy or arrhythmias.
22430	Among male children before age 6, symptoms such as progressive muscle weakness of the les and pelvis associated with a loss of muscle mass is observed. The condition may eventually spread to the arms, neck, and other areas. An enlarged calf muscles, low strength and endurance levels, and difficulties in standing up and walking on stairs are among the early signs of DMD.
22431	An authoritative and scientifically confirmed set of symptoms does not exist yet due to the extreme variability of the disease. The following are however observed among patients with the condition: facial muscle weakness, shoulder weakness, hearing loss, abnormal heart rhythm, unequal weakening of the biceps, triceps, deltoids, and lower arm muscles, loss of strength in stomach muscles and eventual progression to the legs.
22432	Sudden onset cases of CFS are usually accompanied by a "flu-like illness," which is more likely to occur in winter. A significant proportion of cases meanwhile begin with several months of severe adverse stress. A study reported that some patients experienced CFS after undergoing vaccination or blood transfusion. In the 2003 Canadian clinical working definition or ME/CFS, 8 categories of symptoms can be inferred namely fatigue, post-exertional malaise, sleep dysfunction, pain, neurological/cognitive manifestations, autonomic manifestations, neuroendocrine manifestations, and immune manifestations.
22433	Muscle weakness is the trait of myasthenia gravis, which is known to increase during periods of activity and improves after periods of rest. Other muscles such as those that control eye and eyelid movement, facial expression, talking, chewing and swallowing are also susceptible.
22434	Muscle weakness is the trait of myasthenia gravis, which is known to increase during periods of activity and improves after periods of rest. Other muscles such as those that control eye and eyelid movement, facial expression, talking, chewing and swallowing are also vulnerable.
22435	Among the numerous fungi that commonly cause fungal type of madura foot is the Pseudoallescheria boydii which is presented with discharges that looks the same way as yoghurt once the infection matures. Mycetoma is not characterized by hematogenous and lymphatic affectation. Infected parts of the body are usually the hand or foot that goes all the way up towards the arm of leg.
22436	The three most common symptoms of a Mycobacterium avium complex (or MAC) infection are weight loss, fever, and fatigue. In some cases, infected patients may also experience anemia, neutropenia, diarrhea, abdominal pain, and some tuberculosis-like symptoms. Different types of Mycobacterium avium complex infections will have varying symptoms, typically with bone marrow, pulmonary, or gastrointestinal involvement.
22437	Mycoplasma pneumoniae causes an infection called atypical pneumonia. The organism typically attaches to the upper and lower respiratory tract, causing bronchitis, pneumonia, and pharyngitis. Other symptoms of Mycoplasma pneumoniae infections are: fever; non-productive coughing, tracheobronchitism, as well as rare non-respiratory symptoms such as cardiologic, neurologic, and skin disorders. In general, most Mycoplasma pneumoniae symptoms progress slowly, and usually mild to moderate in severity. In chronic cases, complications such as rheumatoid arthritis and other rheumatological diseases may develop.
22438	What sets Mycoplasmal pneumonia infections apart from other types of pneumonia is the relatively slow progression of its symptoms, a positive blood test for cold-hemagglutinins among 50-70% of infected patients noted after 10 days, absence of bacteria in the sample of gram-stained sputum as well as absence of growth on blood agar. Mycoplasmal atypical pneumonia may be further aggravated by encephalitis, hemolytic anemia Stevens-Johnson's Syndrome or Guillain Barre Syndrome. It is also characterized by lack of sputum production and other extra-pulmonary conditions.
22439	The most visible and common symptoms of this condition include rash-like patches, lesions or tumors. Itching is a very common concern among 20% of the patients.
22440	The most visible and common symptoms of this condition include rash-like patches, lesions or tumors. Itching is a very common concern among 20% of the patients.
22441	Myelitis is characterized by multiple symptoms which include headaches, fever, tingling sensation, pain or loss of feeling. Symptoms may extend to central or peripheral paresis and bladder incontinence or bladder control loss. Signs of meningeal affectation may also appear.
22442	The symptoms that characterize Myelodysplasia include neutropenia, anemia and low cell counts of WBC, RBC and platelets referred to as thrombocytopenia. There are also abnormal granules in cells and an abnormal shape and size of nucleus. Chromosomal abnormalities which include chromosomal translocations and abnormal number of chromosomes are also observed. There is also risk of developing acute myelogenous leukemia. Around 50% of mortality associated with this condition results from infection or bleeding. Leukemia secondary to myelodysplasia responds poorly to treatment.
22443	The symptoms that characterize Myelodysplastic Syndromes include neutropenia, anemia and low cell counts of WBC, RBC and platelets referred to as thrombocytopenia. There are also abnormal granules in cells and an abnormal shape and size of nucleus. Chromosomal abnormalities which include chromosomal translocations and abnormal number of chromosomes are also observed. There is also risk of developing acute myelogenous leukemia. Around 50% of mortality associated with this condition results from infection or bleeding. Leukemia resulting from myelodysplastic syndromes does not respond very well to treatment.
22444	This condition is presented with the bone marrow being replaced by collagen fibrosis. This impairs the ability of the patient to produce new blood cells which results to progressive form of anemia. Patients affected by Myelofibrosis often suffer from hepatosplenomegaly and poikilocytosis.
22445	Myeloma has many possible symptoms, and all symptoms may be due to other causes. They are presented here in decreasing order of incidence those are: Bone pain often involves the spine and ribs, and worsens with activity. Infection the most common infections are pneumonias or pyelonephritis. And renal failure may develop both acutely and chronically.
22446	Symptoms includes an open spinal canal which makes the membranes and the spinal cord protrude at birth resulting into a formation of a sac at the back of the infant. Paralysis, problems in the bladder and bowel including seizures are often observed with children having this kind of medical condition.
22447	Majority of the patients show no specific or serious symptoms of Myeloperoxidase deficiency.
22449	Symptoms associated with this metabolic order include severe fatigue and muscular pains. Absence of ammonia may result in reduction of fumarate amounts available to the citric acid cycle leading to lower levels of nitric oxide, a vasodilator in the body. As a result, reduction in the blood flow and oxygen intake is observed when doing rigorous exercises. Reduction in IMP may result in reduction of lactic acid produced by muscles.
22450	Symptoms includes pain that extends the chest to the shoulder, arm, back and even jaw, pressure in the chest that lasts more than a few minutes, shortness of breathing, fainting, heart burn or abdominal pain, dizziness, nausea and vomiting and increased chest pains.
22451	While symptoms are varied, myocarditis mostly manifests as an actual inflammation of the myocardium, or a weakening of the heart muscle that is secondary to the inflammation. Most patients have been found to exhibit severe chest pains, palpitations, and fever due to infections. Congestive heart failure is also a dominant sign, which may, in turn, result in edema, breathlessness, and hepatic congestions. Sudden death in young adults is the most disturbing of all the symptoms. In all reported myocarditis cases to date, an alarming 20% have resulted in sudden death.
22452	Myoclonic jerks may be described as erratic "jumps". These seizures typically result from a rapid muscular contraction and relaxation. Muscle contractions are known as positive myoclonus, whereas relaxations are known as negative myoclonus. In general, healthy individuals usually experience this symptom while sleeping (hypnic jerk). Hiccups, too, are a form of myoclonic jerk in the diaphragm which people normally experience. However, to a larger scale, myoclonic twitching may be indicative of other serious nervous system disorders. In epileptic patients, myoclonus can cause abnormal movements simultaneously on both sides of the body. In reflex epilepsies, myoclonic seizures can be triggered by flashing lights or abrupt environmental factors. Acute pathological cases can result in distorted movement and a severe limitation in the patient's ability to sleep, eat, talk, and walk.
22453	Symptoms of progressive myoclonus epilepsy often worsen over time and can be sometimes fatal. These symptoms include: fever and headaches; focal neurological finding; haemorrhagic eye wounds; papilledema; muscle contractions; myoclonic attacks; irregular muscle twitching; dementia; as well as progressive loss of memory and other intellectual functions. Most symptoms of myoclonus epilepsy appear in childhood or adolescence.
22454	Symptoms includes aching and severe pain of the muscle, stiffness of the muscle and the joint near it and tension.
22455	Dark urine, usually described as burgundy in color, is indicative of myoglobinuria. Additionally, patients experience severe pain and tenderness or weakness in the affected muscles. Also, decreased urine output and rapid weight gain may also result due to renal failure.
22456	Symptoms includes unusually long and heavy menstrual bleeding, frequent urination, constipation, pain in the leg and the back and pressure or pain in the pelvic area.
22457	While myopathy comes in various distinct forms, the most common known symptoms of this muscular disorder are muscle weakness, weakness of the limbs, and weakness after physical exertion. Muscle mass deceptively appears normal, as atrophy occurs very late in muscle disorders. Similarly, deep tendon reflexes (or DTRs) and sensory perception should appear normal. A closer examination of the skin may expose Gottron papules, commonly described as pinkish scaly areas over knuckles, knees, and elbows.
22458	Patients suffering from Centronuclear myopathies experience severe hypotonia, hypoxia-requiring breathing assistance, and scaphocephaly. Persons with the condition may also have high arched palate, long digits, bell shaped chest, or long face. Myotubular myopathy only affects muscles without any impact on intelligence. But some children have suffered cardiac arrest due to possible added stress on the heart.
22459	CNM presents in the following symptoms: severe hypotonia, hypoxia-requiring breathing assistance, and scaphocephaly. The X-linked myotubular myopathy (MTM) commonly presents at birth; and for this reason, it is considered congenital. Conversely, some forms of centronuclear myopathies manifest much later in life.
22460	For patients with myopia, nearby objects appear very clearly, while distant objects seem blurry. Individuals with this condition have either abnormally long eyeballs or excessively steep corneas. As a result, the images are focused in the vitreous inside the eye rather than on the retina of the back of the eye.
22461	Those with severe myopia may have an increased risk of retinal detachment and glaucoma. The retina may be overly stretched in severely myopic patients, thus retinal detachment is a clear and present danger. Additionally, glaucoma may be evident, resulting in an initial partial loss of eyesight, particularly in the peripheral vision. If untreated, glaucoma may lead to total blindness. Severely myopic individuals may also experience what is known as "floaters", which are shadow-life forms that appear singly or in groups within the field of vision.
22462	Myositis can present with a weakness of the muscles, usually in the distal (feet and hands) muscles. Patients also complain of difficulty in swallowing, falling and tripping, and difficulty in holding or grabbing objects. Muscle pain and tenderness are also common symptoms. There is also a variable array of other symptoms, which depend largely on the specific type of the myositis.
22463	Patients suffering from myositis ossificans usually complain of tenderness, pain, focal swelling, and joint muscle reduction as a consequence of a painful muscle contusion which healed very slowly, if at all. A large percentage (approximately 80%) of ossifications develops in the thigh or arm. Other areas which may become affected are the erector spinae, intercostals spaces, glutei, pectoralis muscles, and the chest. The condition may also present as a feeling of "fullness" deep within the injured extremity. A visible discoloration or bruising of the skin is also common. Patients also suffer from restricted activity due to the stiffness of their joints. Depending on the injured area, patients may experience loss of motion of the thigh (knee) or arm (elbow).
22464	The formation of extra-skeletal bone causes loss of mobility because the joints become affected. Patients born with myositis ossificans progressiva may have trouble opening the mouth fully, and thus are unable to speak and eat without difficulty. As the condition progresses, patients may suffer from malnutrition because of their eating difficulties. Consequently, they may also have problems breathing because extra bone forms around the rib cage and restricts normal lung expansion. Any muscle trauma (such as a fall or invasive surgery) in patients born with myositis ossificans progressiva patients may cause muscle swelling and inflammation, followed by rapid ossification in the area with injury. Such episodes may also be triggered by certain viral afflictions such as influenza. In general, people with this genetic disorder are born with big, malformed toes. The big toe abnormality is a distinguishing feature that helps identify this affliction from other bone and muscle diseases. Additionally, afflicted patients may also possess short thumbs and other visible skeletal defects.
22465	Depending on the kind of mytonic dystrophy, symptoms of muscle weakness and slow development of muscles are observed during a child's first few years of growth. Spinal deformities begin to occur at the pelvis up to the different muscle areas. Cataracts and other physical abnormalities develop as the patient ages.
22466	Currently, MTM has no known cause, but it appears to be mostly genetic in origin. This group of inherited muscle disorders occurs when the muscle cell development of unborn infants is arrested during the middle stage. The X-Linked Myotobular Myopathy is the most severe form of this condition, and is common in males. Among affected patients, this condition frequently presents at birth. Historically, all young boys diagnosed with this X-Linked MTM died shortly after birth, but recent treatments have improved the survival rate of MTM patients. The autosomal form of MTM is less common and exhibit more variable symptoms. Generally, autosomal dominant MTM patients pass the condition from generation to generation. Symptoms are manifested in late childhood or even in early adulthood, and seem to worsen as time passes. Conversely, the automosal recessive form can manifest at birth but is less severe than X-linked. Both forms can affect males and females.
22467	Myxedema often affects the skin visibly. Common signs are a thickening or coarsening of the skin. The facial appearance of affected patients may visibly change, including a thickening of the nose, swelling of the lips, and puffiness around the eyes. Infiltrations (described as jelly-like) may appear in subcutaneous tissues. The skin may become dried or yellowed. Additionally, myxedema patients demonstrate slow or slurred speech, lethargy, mental dullness, or experience a variety of mental problems. Weight gain, constipation, thinning or balding hair, hearing impairments, and carpal tunnel syndrome are also typical symptoms.
22468	The fingers are the most common location for myxoid cysts that are usually found near the base of the nail, slightly off to one side or the other. Myxoid cysts can also occasionally occur beneath the nail or involve the root of the nails, where changes in the nail, such as depressions, grooves or slight color changes may be seen.
22469	The myxozoa parasites, which have over 1300 species known to man, can cause infections through valved spores. These parasites possess two sporoblast cells as well as one or more polar capsules with filaments that anchor (or hook) the spore to its host. Sporoblasts are released as amoebula, a motile form. This, in turn, invades the tissues of the host and develops into multi-nucleate plasmodia. Often, some nuclei join, engulfing each other, to form a new set of spores. Normally present in fish hosts, the myxozoan often appear in poor water quality and as a result of stress and poor handling. They usually manifest in cases where fungal and bacterial infections are also present. Injuries caused by myxozoa often serve as an opening for other parasites to further infect the host.
22470	One of the most striking signs of the Naegeli syndrome is the complete absence of identifying ridges or lines on the fingers. Other symptoms include diminished sweat gland functionality, as well as the thickening of the palms and soles due to the absence of hyperkeratosis.
22471	Symptoms of naegleria typically manifest within 1-2 weeks of infection, and may include: changes in sense of smell or taste; high fever; sudden headache; stiff neck, vomiting and nausea; confusion; loss of balance; sleepiness; seizures; and hallucinations. Naegleria symptoms tend to progress very rapidly, and, if untreated, can lead to death within 3-7 days.
22472	Symptoms of the Naegleria infection includes unusual headache, stiff and pain in the neck that is usually longer than usual, nausea, dizziness, unusual feeling of sleepiness and restlessness, seizures, fever, weight loss and a change of smell or taste.
22473	Nail avulsion is basically a nail coming off, lifting, or breaking away from its bed. The nail that is removed may be partial or whole. This usually comes with pain that ranges in severity from mild to extreme.
22474	Symptoms of Nail fungus includes discoloration of the nails which usually ranges from being a yellowish to dark in color, thickening and brittling of the nails, deformation of the nails, absence of shine in the nail, foul odor of the foot and the presence of onycholysis or the separation of the nail from the nailbed.
22475	Visible tell-tale signs of this genetic defect include poorly-developed fingernails, toenails, and kneecaps (patellae). In some cases, affected individuals may have no thumbnails at all, or have only a tiny piece of thumbnail on the thumb's edge. NPS may also manifest through such abnormalities as deformed elbows, oddly shaped pelvis, and renal (kidney) disease. Recent studies also indicate that NPS affected people are more susceptible to scoliosis and glaucoma as a result of ill developed spines. Although symptoms may vary greatly, affected individuals tend to demonstrate only a few of the known symptoms.
22476	The symptoms of nappy rash include red rashes on the skin of the anus. Babies often feel discomfort and irritation due to the itch brought about by the rashes.
22477	Narcissistic personality disorder symptoms may include: Believing that you're better than others, Fantasizing about power, success and attractiveness, Exaggerating your achievements or talents, Expecting constant praise and admiration, believing that you're special, Failing to recognize other people's emotions and feelings, expecting others to go along with your ideas and plans
22478	Narcoleptic individuals commonly suffer from disturbed nocturnal sleep, which is often wrongly confused with insomnia. Patients also experience abnormalities in rapid eye movement (REM) during sleep. One of the most documented symptoms is the propensity of narcoleptics to fall asleep at any random time (such as in the middle of talking, walking, working, or while performing any normal routine activities). This is because patients suffer from EDS, or excessive daytime sleepiness, even after a full night's rest. As a result, affected people tend to fall asleep without warning, mostly in unexpected times and places. These inappropriate "naps" may occur several times a day, but last only briefly.
22479	A narcoleptic patient will exhibit the following manifestations: * Present Excessive Daytime Sleepiness (EDS) even after having enough sleep during the night * Becoming drowsy regardless of the time of the day * Sleep during the night may tend to become disturbed with numerous awakenings * Cataplexy a disorder characterized by muscular weakness
22480	Symptoms of the presence of Nasal Polyps includes the occurrence of runny nose, chronic sinus infections, stuffiness of the nose, headaches, diminishing sense of smell, snoring and headaches.
22481	Among the signs that a tumor has develop are a lump in the neck. Hearing difficulties are also evident. Occasional nosebleeds, ringing of ears and headaches can also be felt.
22482	Most nasopharyngeal carcinoma cases are only detected when the cancer has reached a more advanced stage; this is because few symptoms appear on the initial phase of the cancer; symptoms that are not evident enough to consider the possibility of nasopharyngeal carcinoma. The most prominent feature of nasopharyngeal carcinoma is the presentation of lump in the neck Some of the few symptoms that appear in the early stages of nasopharyngeal carcinoma are the following: * Nasal discharge or nosebleed occurs when the tumor enlarges causing a blockage in the nasal passages. * Chronic ear infections when the auditory tubes are obstructed signified by loss of hearing, discharge coming from the ear and buzzing noise. * Swallowing difficulties and hoarse voice * Paralysis in one side of the face. * Spreading of the cancer to the lymph nodes of the neck.
22483	The symptoms of Naxos Disease are more critical and severe compared to autosomal dominant Arrhythmogenic right ventricular dysplasia (ARVD). The following are some of the symptoms of this disorder: * Heart disease * Wooly hair * Thickened skin on soles * Thickened skin on palms * Fainting * Ventricular tachycardia * Rough hair * Dry hair * Bristly hair
22484	Symptoms includes blurry vision of objects that are distant, squinting in order to see distant objects clearly and headache.
22485	Initially, neck cancer may present with harmless symptoms such as enlarged lymph nodes around the neck, a hoarser voice, or a sore throat. However, as the carcinoma progresses, symptoms may become chronic, including: swallowing difficulties; numbness or paralysis of face muscles; speech difficulties; sore, lump, or mass in the neck that doesn't heal; neck pain; unintended weight loss, bleeding from the mouth; as well as sinus congestion.
22486	Symptoms includes pain and stiffness in the neck which may often be sharp and dull, back pain, and shoulder pain.
22487	The infection starts at the site of injury or trauma, the site will feel very painful but no significant change in appearance. After a few hours, tissue becomes swollen. As the disease progresses, the following manifestations become visible: * Diarrhea * Vomiting * If the bacteria is not deep; redness, swollen, and itchy skin starts to show. If the bacteria are deep, signs of inflammation do not tend to appear at once. * Skin color on the site of infection becomes violet. * Blisters will then form with necrosis or death of subcutaneous tissue following later on. * Fever
22488	Neisseria Meningitidis manifests general symptoms including: * Fatigue * Nausea and vomiting * High Fever * Headache * Neck stiffness that may lead to coma and death.
22489	Nelson Syndrome presents the following manifestations: * Reduced visual fields * Excessive pigmentations in the skin * Pituitary humor * Increased levels of ACTH or Adrenocorticotrophic Hormone * Headache * Absence of menstruation * Enlarged pituitary gland * Increased levels of Melanocyte-stimulating Hormone (MSH) * Muscle weakness
22490	* Individuals with Nemaline myopathy have moderate weakness in muscles of the leg, trunk and arms along with some weakness of the face, throat, and tongue muscles. * Decreased or absent reflexes * Children affected with nemaline myopathy usually have long, narrow faces with high-arched palates. * Nemaline myopathy children often have slender body musculatures. * High-arched feet * Curvature of the spine * Malformation of the mandible (jaw) * Infants with Nemaline myopathy exhibit remarkable weakness, weak respiratory muscles, low muscle tone, poor sucking, reflux and respiratory failure leading to death during the early years of life.
22491	Symptoms of neonatal ALD, which are typically present at birth, include: facial abnormalities; mental retardation; retinal degeneration; seizures; adrenal dysfunction; low muscle tone or hypotonia; as well as an enlarged liver (hepatomegaly). Most neonatal ALD patients die within 1-10 years from the onset of symptoms.
22492	Neonatal Hemochromatosis manifests characteristics similar to hereditary Hemochromatosis including: * Malaise, which is a feeling of general and unexplainable discomfort and uneasiness. * Erectile dysfunction and lack of function of the gonads (ovaries or testes) * Decreased libido * Arthritis of the hand, knee and shoulder joints * Congestive heart failure * Involuntary movements (dyskinesia) * Hearing loss (deafness) * Endocrine organs dysfunctions * A darkish color to the skin * Increased susceptibility to some infections caused by siderophilic organisms like Vibrio vulnificus infections from eating sea foods.
22493	Neonatal hepatitis presents the following symptoms: * Bile Duct obstruction * Yellowness of the skin, sclera of the eye, mucous membrane and excretions brought about by hyperbilirubinemia (Jaundice) * Pale stool * Dark discoloration of the urine * Itching * Enlarged liver * Delayed growth * Irritability * Portal hypertension or high blood pressure occurring in the veins leading to the liver.
22494	There are three forms of Neonatal Herpes: SEM (skin, eyes and mouth) herpes; DIS (disseminated) herpes, and CNS (central nervous system) herpes. Each form has distinguishing symptoms as follows: SEM herpes solitary and most prominent feature is the presence of external lesions without any internal organ involved. These lesions can be situated on trauma sites like the attachment site of fetal scalp electrodes, vacuums, or forceps used during delivery, nasal portion of the pharynx, and margin of the eyes. DIS herpes affects the internal organs especially the liver. Infants with CNS herpes exhibit seizures, tremors, irritability, feed poorly; have unstable temperature, and bulging fontanel.
22495	A distinctive yellow color appearing on the skin of newborn infant is the primary symptom of neonatal jaundice. Neonatal jaundice that appears in the second day after birth (called physiological jaundice) is usually harmless and resolves on its own on the eight day of life in normal births and fourteenth in premature births. On the other hand, neonatal jaundice that appears on the first day of birth is invariable pathologic and requires specific treatment to resolve.
22496	The most common manifestations of neonatal lupus are dermatologic, cardiac, and hepatic. In some cases, affected infants may also show hematologic anomalies. In general, neonatal lupus presents with: low counts of red blood cells, white blood cells, and platelets; skin rashes; congenital heart block and other heart defects; and liver abnormalities.
22497	Infants born with neonatal myasthenia usually have a feeble cry, poor sucking function, as well as experience respiratory distress or "floppiness". In most cases, the symptoms of neonatal myasthenia disappear spontaneously in the first few months of life.
22498	The primary symptom of neonatal ophthalmitis is pus coming out of a newborn's eye. These eye discharges usually last until the 21st day of birth, and then resolve either simultaneously or with proper treatment.
22499	The symptoms of neonatal respiratory distress syndrome typically appear within a few minutes of birth, and may include: cyanosis or a bluish discoloration of the skin and mucus membranes; apnea or brief stops in breathing; decreased urine output; nasal flaring; puffy or swollen limbs; rapid or shallow breathing; and shortness of breath with distinct grunting sounds while breathing.
22500	Symptoms of neonatal tetanus include: irritability; restlessness; muscle spasms; muscle rigidity; dysphagia; facial grimacing; poor suck; and failure to thrive. Tetanus in babies is usually fatal, with symptoms typically appearing 4-14 days from birth.
22501	The main characteristic manifested by infants born with neonatal transient jaundice is yellowish color of skin and eyes.
22502	Nephritis is a serious condition characterized primarily by an inflammation of one or both of the kidneys, along with any or a combination of the following symptoms: reduced urine; cloudy urine; blood in urine; edema; fluid retention; swelling; and loin pain. Approximately fifty percent of nephritis cases are asymptomatic, but symptoms may manifest as the disease progresses.
22503	Nephroblastoma symptoms includes abdominal pain, constipation or unusual bowel movements, change in the urinary habits, swelling of the face, recurrent fever, lumps, proptosis, back pain, fever, scoliosis and unexplained weight loss.
22504	Nephrocalcinosis produce symptoms that are similar to nephritis including: * Reduced and cloudy urine or increased urine * Fluid retention in a body part (edema) * Calcium deposits in the kidney * Impaired kidney function * Increased thirst * Hypertension * Bloody tinge or presence of blood in the urine
22505	Persons with Diabetes Insipidus present the following signs and symptoms: * Too much urination * Intense thirst * Eating too much * Signs of dehydration * Unexplainable weight gain * Appetite interruption * Delayed growth * Fever * Vomiting * Diarrhea
22506	Symptoms of nephropathy resemble those of nephritis, which may include: edema; reduced urine; bloody urine; cloudy urine; kidney inflammation; and edema, among others.
22507	Nephrosclerosis can sometimes be asymptomatic or incapable of showing any sign of presence of the disease. Though at times, recurrent and chronic hypertension is an indication of that nephrosclerosis is slowing invading the kidney.
22508	Nephrotic syndrome is characterized by: * Excessive serum proteins in the urine (proteinuria) * Low level of albumin in blood serum (hypoalbuminemia) * Abnormal levels of lipids and/or lipoproteins in the blood (hyperlipidemia) * Increased of fluid in any organ (edema) Edema is the most common sign of Nephrotic Syndrome. It may present as puffiness around the eyes, especially in the morning; pitting edema on the legs, presence of fluid in the pleural cavity, or ascites. Other less common presentations of the disease are: * Hypertension * Foamy urine * Rash associated with Systemic Lupus Erythematosus
22509	Nerve cancer generally presents with these symptoms: immense pain; the appearance of a painful lump; as well as difficulty moving both arms and legs.
22510	The term nervous breakdown is often used to describe situations that demonstrate extreme emotional stress or agitation. In most cases, what is described as a "nervous breakdown" is actually severe depression, which may manifest with the following symptoms: agitation or restlessness; difficulty or inability to stop crying; insomnia or sleeping difficulties; significant appetite changes; general indecision in everyday function. Other signs commonly associated with nervous breakdown are: disinterest in family life, or work; alienation from previously close friends and family; paranoia; thoughts of grandeur or invincibility; delusions; suicidal tendencies; aggressive or violent behavior; flashbacks of previous traumatic events; drug or alcohol abuse; and inability to pursue a normal life, normal activities or normal relationships.
22511	Symptoms of the Paraneoplastic Syndromes of the Nervous System includes dizziness, seizures, slurred speeches, problem with walking and keeping balance and memory loss.
22512	Some of the presentations brought about by a neural tube defect are the following: * Increased head circumference * Dysmorphic features * Lump over the base of the back * Laryngeal paresis * Leg paralysis * Stridor * Bowel dysfunction * Foot deformities * Tuft of hair on the lower back
22513	Neuralgia presents with burning or stabbing pain that is commonly brief but severe. The pain has been described as resembling a shooting sensation coursing through the affected nerve, and may manifest in the specific part of the body that is supplied by the irritated nerve. More specific symptoms vary according to the specific type of neuralgia.
22514	Symptoms includes pain and burning sensation in the skin, sensitivity to touch and temperature, numbness, headache and itchiness of the skin.
22515	Symptoms may be present at birth or develop within the early years of life, which presents the following manifestations: * Infants born with neuraminidase deficiency present excessive swelling throughout the body especially noted immediately at birth. * Many infants born with this deficiency are born with coarse facial features including flat nasal bridge, enlarged gums, puffy eyelids, macroglossia (excessively large tongue). * Skeletal anomalies like hip dislocation * Myoclonus (sudden involuntary muscle contraction) * Red spots in the eyes ( called cherry-red macules) * Impaired voluntary movement coordination * Tremors * Seizure * Impaired vision * Clinical tests uncover liver or spleen enlargement noticeable due to abdominal swelling * Absence or lack of muscle tone (Hypotonia) * Severe mental retardation * Recurrent respiratory infections * Failure to thrive * Most infants with this disease die before they turn 1-year-old.
22516	* Persistent and intermittent fatigue * Tiredness * Weakness * Depression * Exhaustion * Headache * Tender lymph nodes * Muscle aches * Joint aches * Inability to concentrate * Short-term memory loss * Sleep problems * Chest pain * Rapid heartbeat * Irregular heartbeat * Anxiety * Impotence * Cold or clammy hands * Rapid breathing * Dizziness or even faintness * Unusual sweating * Sore throat * Hyperactive tendon reflexes * Urinary retention or excessive holding of urine in the body * Abnormal lymphocytes * Visual disturbances * Pins and needles sensation
22517	Symptoms of neuritis vary according to the specific nerve or nerves involved. However, in general, neuritis manifests with a tingling or burning pain, along with: paresis, paresthesia, anesthesia, hypoesthesia (or numbness), wasting, paralysis, and disappearance of reflexes.
22518	The disorder is marked by distinguished characteristics including the following: * Progressive muscle weakness * Atrophy or partial/complete wasting away of a certain body part. * Progressive cognitive loss * Involuntary twisting movements of the body * Spiked red blood cells in association to some neurological disorders that are inherited (acanthocytosis). * Facial tics * Uncontrolled muscle movements * Walking instability * Seizures * Tongue and lip biting * Changes in personality, comprehension, and judgment
22519	Symptoms exhibited by Neuroblastoma depend on the location of the tumor. Other characteristics of the disorder include: * Abdominal swelling * Weight loss * Pallor * Lethargy * Vulnerability to infections * Lump in the neck if the tumor is present in that location * Symptoms of adrenaline-secreting tumors include flushing, diarrhea, high blood pressure * Tumor
22520	Common symptoms of neurocysticercosis are: headaches, seizures, lack of attention to surroundings, confusion, balance loss, hydrocephalus or swelling of the brain, and in some cases, sudden death. In addition, neurocysticercosis can cause large cysts to form in the brain.
22521	Its symptoms includes the cycle of itching and scratching of a person of a portion of his or her skin. The itchiness though may be present only in the limited area of the skin. Its symptoms may also include roughness and occurrence of dark patches in the skin including its the thickening or the leathering of the skin.
22522	The symptoms of Neuroendocrime Carcinoma of the skin includes the occurrence of a nodules on the skin which is normally not painful and harmless at first but is usually fast-growing. Such nodule may be flesh in color or bluish red and usually appears in the face, head and neck of the person.
22523	Symptoms of neuroendocrine tumors include: * flushing * vague abdominal pain * diarrhea or increase in number of bowel movements * weight loss * weight gain * heart palpitations * congestive heart failure (CHF) * asthma * acromegaly * Cushing's syndrome * Bronchial restrictions /wheezing * Myopathy * Abnormal increased in skin pigmentation * Many tumors are asymptomatic; meaning no sign of existence is evident.
22525	Individuals with Neurofibroma manifest the following symptoms: * Painless slow growing mass * Presence of lump in the skin * Electric shock-like sensation when touching affected area * On rare cases, pain in the location of the tumor
22526	Most of the symptoms of Neurofibromatosis arise from tumor complications. Here are some of the identifiable symptoms of this disorder: * Multiple skin lumps that may range from few to thousands; soft painless skin lumps * Neurofibromas * Skin abnormalities * Freckles in the armpit or groin * Pigmented birth marks * Skeletal abnormalities like bow legs or scoliosis * Lisch nodules (benign tumors affecting the iris) * Tumor located in the optic nerve (Optic Glioma)
22527	Symptoms of Neurofibromatosis type 2 include the following: * Neurofibromas * Tinnitus or ringing sensation in the ear * Loss of hearing * Poor balance * Headache * Facial pain * Numbness in the face * Swallowing difficulties * Speech defects * Eye movement difficulties * Axillary or inguinal freckles * Thinning of long bone cortex * Large head * Spinal curvature * Cataract or opacity of the lens of the eye * Meningiomas
22528	The most common manifestation of neurogenic bladder are: urinary tract infection, kidney stone, fever, urinary incontinence, oliguria, urinary frequency and urgency and loss of sensation of bladder fullness.
22529	The most common manifestation of neurogenic bladder are: urinary tract infection, kidney stone, fever, urinary incontinence, oliguria, urinary frequency and urgency and loss of sensation of bladder fullness.
22530	Some of the most common symptoms observed in a person suffering form Neuroleptic malignant syndrome are the following: * High fever * Muscle rigidity or involuntary movement or contraction of muscles that is uncontrollable * Autonomic instability * Cognitive changes like delirium * Unstable blood pressure * Profuse sweating * Rapid heart rate * Rapid breathing * Tremor * Seizure * Swallowing difficulties * Speech difficulties * Excessive salivation or drooling
22531	There are several types of neuroma, or benign tumors from the nervous system. Symptoms depend on the specific type of neuroma involved. Acoustic neuroma, the most common type of this tumor, may exhibit the following symptoms: hearing loss typically on only one side or more pronounced in one side; a ringing sensation (tinnitus) in the affected ear; vertigo or dizziness; difficulty maintaining balance; as well as facial numbness and tingling.
22532	Symptoms includes the presence of pain in the ball of the foot that extends to the toes and tingling and numbness of the toes.
22533	Neuropathic pain is itself a symptom. It has been often described as a shooting and burning pain, accompanied by a tingling sensation and numbness.
22534	In its most common form, peripheral neuropathy presents with pain and numbness in the hands and feet. This pain is usually described as a tingling or burning sensation, while the numbness is often compared to the feeling of wearing gloves or thin stockings. Specific symptoms vary according to the type of nerves that are affected. But in general, symptoms of peripheral neuropathy include: gradual onset of tingling and numbness in feet or hands, which may spread upwards into the legs and arms; burning or sharp electric-like pain; extreme sensitivity to touch; lack of coordination; muscle weakness or paralysis; as well as loss of bowel or bladder control.
22535	There are several forms of neurosis, and symptoms vary depending on the specific type of neurosis involved. In general, neurosis may be characterized by: emotional distress; occupational disturbance; disturbance of social life; disturbance of personal relationships; anxiety; sadness; depression; anger; irritability; confusion; low sense of self-worth; and accompanied by self-awareness of one's own psychological problems.
22536	Common symptoms of neurotoxic shellfish poisoning include: numbness in or around the mouth; a tingling sensation in the mouth; a tingling sensation in arms and legs; poor coordination; gastrointestinal disturbances; and temperature reversal. Symptoms typically present within 1-3 hours after eating the contaminated shellfish.
22537	Symptoms may appear immediately after exposure to neurotoxic substances. It some cases, symptoms tend to present later on. The following are some noticeable presentations that may suggest neurotoxicity syndromes: * Weakness in the limb * Numbness in the limb * Vision impairment * headache * Loss of memory * Anxiety * Depression * Impaired cognitive function * Sexual dysfunction * Impaired mental functioning * Brain damage
22538	Common symptoms of neutropenia include: Fever, Frequent infections due to lessened ability to fight bacterial infections, Mouth ulcers, Diarrhea, Burning sensation when urinating, unusual redness, pain, or swelling around a wound, Sore throat, Shortness of breath, shaking chills.
22539	Symptoms includes the occurrence of a plain, small and brown spots which occurs in the body's different parts.
22540	The primary symptom of Nevoid Basal Cell Carcinoma Syndrome includes unusual appearance of the face. Symptoms associated with affectation of the nervous and endocrine systems are also apparent.
22541	Commonly, a nevus appears as a plain, brownish spot. However, some other colors, shapes, and sizes of nevi have been observed. Colors of nevus may range from flesh colored, to reddish brown, to dark brown, or blue. Its shape may vary from oval to round. Size is also variable; some are as small as a pinhead while others are big enough to cover an entire arm. But on average, nevi are less than a quarter of an inch in size. A nevus can develop in any part of the body. In general, nevi or moles are generally harmless and painless. In rare cases, however, these pigmented spots can become cancerous and progress to skin cancer such as malignant melanoma.
22543	Individuals suffering from Nezelof's syndrome are prone to serious infections and secondary diseases due to the abnormal functioning of their immune system.
22544	Common symptoms of niacin overdose are: skin flushing; tingling skin sensation; paresthesias; gout; diabetes-like symptoms; hyperglycemia; diabetes; rapid heartbeat; itching; nausea and vomiting; abdominal pain; and severe liver damage (or hepatoxicity).
22545	The signs that indicate the onset of the disease are ulcers that develop in the male and female genitalia, abscesses in the groin as well swelling of the esopharyngeal area.
22546	Symptoms of nickel allergy include the development of red and swollen rashes on the skin in about 10-15 minutes from direct contact. It can also cause watery blisters in that causes extreme discomfort and requires medications. If you have a nickel allergy, exposure with items containing nickel may cause a tingly, itching feeling as soon as 20 minutes after contact with your skin.
22547	Symptoms of Nicotine Dependence includes failure and the inability of the person to stop smoking, experiencing withdrawal symptoms such as irritability, restlessness and headache including inability to focus and sleep whenever the person try to stop smoking.
22548	Type A Niemann-Pick Disease begins during infancy. Children with this disorder fail survive past the early stages of childhood. This type is characterized by enlarged spleen and liver, failure of the child to thrive and nervous system deterioration that has a progressive pattern. Type B Niemann-Pick Disease patients also present an enlarged spleen and liver, lung infections and other lung problems, retardation of growth, blood abnormalities with abnormally high lipid and cholesterol levels and low platelet count. These patients usually survive to adulthood. Type C Niemann-Pick Disease occurs during childhood although onset may also be during infancy and adulthood. Symptoms include, serious liver diseases, difficulty in breathing, dystonia, seizures, delayed motor development, lack of vertical eye movements and feeding problems.
22549	Type A Niemann-Pick Disease begins during infancy. Children with this disorder fail survive past the early stages of childhood. This type is characterized by enlarged spleen and liver, failure of the child to thrive and nervous system deterioration that has a progressive pattern. Type B Niemann-Pick Disease patients also present an enlarged spleen and liver, lung infections and other lung problems, retardation of growth, blood abnormalities with abnormally high lipid and cholesterol levels and low platelet count. These patients usually survive to adulthood. Type C Niemann-Pick Disease occurs during childhood although onset may also be during infancy and adulthood. Symptoms include, serious liver diseases, difficulty in breathing, dystonia, seizures, delayed motor development, lack of vertical eye movements and feeding problems.
22550	The primary symptom associated with Niemann-Pick Disease is abnormal enlargement of the spleen and liver known as hepatosplenomegaly. Type A Niemann-Pick Disease' onset is during infancy. Children with this disorder fail survive past the early stages of childhood. This type is characterized by enlarged spleen and liver, failure of the child to thrive and nervous system deterioration that has a progressive pattern. Type B Niemann-Pick Disease patients also present an enlarged spleen and liver, lung infections and other lung problems, retardation of growth, blood abnormalities with abnormally high lipid and cholesterol levels and low platelet count. These patients usually survive to adulthood. Type C Niemann-Pick Disease occurs during childhood although onset may also be during infancy and adulthood. Symptoms include, serious liver diseases, difficulty in breathing, dystonia, seizures, delayed motor development, lack of vertical eye movements and feeding problems.
22551	Symptoms includes, liver diseases which are of serious types, severe breathing problems and difficulties, dystonia or abnormal muscle tone, seizures, delayed development, lack of vertical eye movements, uncoordinated movements and feeding problems.
22552	The primary symptom of night blindness is the inability or difficulty to see in the dark or in low light. Night blindness may also be accompanied by symptoms of dry eyes and blurry vision (even at daytime).
22553	The main symptom presented by night sweats is perspiration of the body even if the room temperature is normal.
22554	Sudden awakening from sleep, Persistent fear or terror that occurs at night, Screaming, Sweating, Confusion, Rapid heart rate, Unable to fully wake up, Difficult to comfort.
22556	Among the symptoms of nil disease is edema, and proteinuria, a condition where proteins leak out from the kidneys.
22557	Pulmonary infections include night sweats, cough, chest pain and fever. Neurological infections include headache, confusion, lethargy, sudden neurological deficits and seizures. Cerebral abscesses can be found in the CT-Scan. Lymphocutaneous disease manifests as nocardial cellulitis, nodular lymphangeitis with nodules alongside lymphatic pathway and rarely, mycetoma. Ocular diseases are rarely manifested. History of ocular trauma may be a finding. Disseminated nocardiosis manifests as disseminated infection among immunocompromised individuals. Involvement of the brain and lungs is observed. Moderate to high fever is also common. Cerebral abscesses and skin lesions may be apparent and severe pulmonary problems.
22558	The most common symptom of nocturia is frequent night urination or the need to urinate repeatedly throughout the night.
22559	Sleep arousal disorder (example not awaking in response to sensory signals); Urinary tract infection (UTI for example: cystitis); Urethral obstruction (congenital or acquired as a result of trauma or infection)
22560	Symptoms includes occurrence of unfounded nervousness, irregular heartbeat and sudden weight loss.
22561	A person who is exposed to loud noise for a long time will cause symptoms of Noise Induced Deafness to increase gradually. After some time, the sounds that the person hears can be described as distorted or muffled. Understanding speech may become difficult as well.
22562	Clinical presentation of Noma includes development of ulcers in the mucous membranes of the mouth. Later on, painless degeneration of tissues follows rapidly. This can also degrade facial bones and tissues. Noma can cause degradation of the children's faces usually within days. Noma Pudendi, another condition which is sometimes associated with Noma, can aggravate the disease by causing damages to the tissues of the genitals.
22563	The primary symptom of non-Hodgkin's lymphoma is an enlarged, painless and rubbery swelling of the lymph nodes observed in the neck, groin or underarm. NHL is localized only 10-20% of the time. Other symptoms may also include unexplained fever, weight loss and lack of appetite, fatigue, night sweats and itchy skin. Other patients also present red, dark and thick skin patches, chronic pain of the abdomen, anemia and leg swelling.
22564	The symptoms of NKH patients depend on the specific form and age of onset. Classic neonatal or Classic forms have symptoms such as lethargy, hypotonia and myoclonic jerks progressing to apnea and oftentimes lead to death. Patients who regain respiration suffer from intractable seizures and mental retardation. Infantile form is associated with seizures and varying degrees of mental retardation following 6 months of normal development. Mild episodic form happens during childhood and is associated with mental retardation, delirium, chorea and vertical gaze palsy during fever. Late onset form occurs during childhood. Symptoms include optic atrophy and spastic diplegia. Atypical form is non-specific. Symptoms include expressive speech deficit and some neurologic abnormalities. Transient form presents as elevated plasma and CSF glycine levels at birth. This is normalized between 2 and 8 weeks.
22565	The major symptoms associated with non-small cell lung cancer include; dyspnea, hemoptysis, chronid cough, wheezing, chest and/or abdominal pain, weight loss, fatigue, lack of appetite, dysphonia and dysphagia.
22566	Non-specific urethritis symptoms in men include: urethral pain; urinary pain; urinary frequency; urinary discharge; stained underwear; red urethra; and urethra inflammation. In women, non-specific urethritis may be either asymptomatic or mildly symptomatic with signs of: urinary pain; urinary frequency; mild pelvic pain; thick yellowish vaginal discharge; and pain during sexual intercourse. Occasionally, deep pelvic pain and pain between the anus and genitals may also be observed in both men and women.
22567	Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease symptoms includes fatigue, malaise, lack of appetite, sudden weight loss, weakness, nausea, pain in the upper right abdomen, yellowish skin color, lack of sex interest, itching in the hands and feet, swelling of the legs and feet, confusion and forgetfulness, encephalopathy and even liver failure.
22568	Symptoms are usually felt in the advanced stage of the condition. Symptoms in the advanced are fatigue, weight loss and weakness. NASH can take years or decades to progress and can even reverse on its own without any medical intervention. If the case worsens, it leads to scarring of the liver which is referred to as fibrosis. Fibrosis leads to the serious scarring, hardening and abnormal functioning of the liver.
22569	Symptoms include runny nose, occurrence of mucus or phlegm in the postnasal drip or the throat, and having a stuffy nose.
22570	Symptoms include a painful erection, a firm penile shaft and an erection which usually last for four to six hours.
22571	Symptoms include diarrhea, abdominal pain, bloating, anemia, upset stomach, cramps, skin rashes, weight loss, abdominal cramps, oily and grayish stools and stunted growth especially in children.
22572	Symptoms includes bloating, belching, an early feeling of fullness and burning sensation or discomfort in the upper abdomen or lower chest.
22573	Pulmonary valvular stenosis occurs in 50% of NS patients. Gastointestinal problems with difficulty in swallowing and forceful vomiting are common. Almost all males have undescended testicles. Motor delay and poor coordination, mental retardation, speech difficulties, joint or muscle pain, short stature and some characteristic facial features are noted.
22574	Among the symptoms of NPH include ataxia and gait disturbance, dementia, personality disorders such as apathy and slight inattention as well as memory problems. Urinary incontinence is also observed in advanced stages.
22575	Symptoms of the Norovirus infection includes nausea, abdominal cramps and pain, diarrhea, sudden weight of loss, malaise and fever.
22576	Patients with Norrie Disease may develop eye problems such as cataracts or have developmental delay or mental retardation, psychotic-like features, and other abnormalities. Most patients start to loss hearing in early adolescence.
22577	Most cases of nose foreign body occur in toddlers and children aged 1 to 8 years old. Kids typically learn to pick up objects (toys, in particular) at 9 months, and from then on, will have a tendency to stick anything up their nasal cavity. Some objects are simply stuck and do not cause any problems or symptoms. In other cases, the nose foreign body may cause such symptoms as: clear nasal discharge in early stages; thick, yellowish and foul-smelling discharge in later stages; breathing difficulties; and pain in or around the nose.
22578	The main symptom of rhinitis is a runny nose, a situation in which the nose finds it difficult to breathe.
22579	Nosebleeds typically occur in only one nostril. In some cases, the bleeding may be heavy enough for blood to fill up the nostril and overflow within the area inside the nose where the 2 nostrils converge (called nasopharynx), eventually spilling into the other nostril to cause bleeding from both sides. In extreme cases, nosebleeds may also drip back into the throat or down into the stomach, causing the patient to spit or vomit blood. If blood loss is excessive, the patient may experience light-headedness, dizziness, fainting, and confusion.
22580	The symptoms of nummular eczema are the growth of purple sores that turn into rashes and open patches on the skin. They are usually itchy and irritating especially when exposed to foreign substances. The lesions also become scaly as they develop.
22581	Symptoms depend on the type of nut to which an individual has an allergic reaction. Such symptoms include upper airway.
22583	Symptoms includes uncontrollable and intense urge to have sex and exhibits a sexual behavior which includes having multiple sexual partners without emotional involvements, viewing of pornographic materials, engaging in too much masturbation and being exhibitionism.
22584	Subsequently, gabapentin, an anticonvulsant, was found to cause improvement in about half the patients who received it to relieve symptoms of nystagmus.
22585	The patient has more than the required body mass index in reference to his or her height and weight. The patient also has a large body frame and has difficulty even doing daily activities, feels lethargic and often breathless.
22586	Children suffering from obesity are overweight for their height and age. They also easily get stressed during physical activity. They also have problems in maintaining balance, as their skeletal structure finds it difficult to carry their weight.
22587	Individuals with OCD exhibit a variety of symptoms such as repeatedly washing the hands, fearing contamination through possible contact of saliva, blood, tears, and other human secretions or excretions, needing to feel even on both sides of the body or feeling things to be uneven and favoring the preferred side of the body. These individuals knowingly comply with their irrational thought and behaviors to avoid panic or dread in a certain situation.
22588	The resulting disorders typically include incontinence, severe infections and ulcerations of the vaginal tract, and often paralysis caused by nerve damage. Sufferers from this disorder are usually also subject to severe social stigma due to odor, perceptions of not being clean, a false assumption of venereal disease and, in some cases, the inability to have children.
22589	The primary symptom of obstipation is severe constipation with frequent passing of hard stool, typically every 3 to 5 days.
22590	Individuals suffering from obstructive sleep apnea may be sleepy at daytime (unexplained), sleep restlessly or snore loudly. Others may also have insomnia, mood swings, or morning headaches, among others.
22591	The person with the condition may have projections at the back of the skull as well as deformed elbows, radial head dislocation, hammer-shaped lateral ends of the clavicles, and abnormal hips and pelvis.
22592	Occipital neuralgia usually manifests as a non-localized headache that usually follows a "ram's horn" pattern on the outside area of the head, commonly starting in the base of the skull or the upper neck. The pain, which has been compared to the sensation of an electric shock, may occur in only one side of the brain or in both sides. Other symptoms of occipital neuralgia are: tenderness and hypersensitivity in the scalp (even the mere act of brushing one's hair can produce agonizing pain); and pressure or pain behind the eyes (patients may be particularly photosensitive when the headache occurs). Occipital neuralgia affects more men than women.
22593	Patients experience persistent coughing, wheezing, nasal irritation, breathing difficulty, and tightness of chest. Sometimes these symptoms may have only been aggravated by irritants in the workplace if a patient already has asthma.
22594	Individuals with OCD usually suffer from unstable and stiff joints such as the knees, ankles, or the elbow.
22595	Infants with Ochoa syndrome look like they are crying when they are smiling. They may also have a urinary abnormality resulting in involuntary urine discharge, urinary tract infections, or abnormal accumulation of urine in the kidneys. Other cases may develop to renal failure during adolescence or early 20s, which could lead to fatal complications.
22596	The patient has dark urine, pigmented skin and arthritis.
22597	The patient has abnormal eye pigmentation, which causes vision problems such as reduced visual acuity, involuntary eye movement, crossed eyes, and sensitivity to bright light and glare.
22598	Ocular herpes may manifest with the following symptoms: sores appearing on the eye; sores appearing on the eyelid; and corneal inflammation, which, in turn, may cause discomfort, irritation, or sudden and severe ocular pain. Less common characteristics of ocular herpes are: swelling around the eyes; tearing; recurrent eye infections; irritation; foreign body sensation; eye redness; watery discharges from the eye; and heightened sensitivity to light or photosensitivity.
22599	In early stages, ocular histoplasmosis syndrome shows no symptoms. The original infection usually resolves without treatment, but leave small scars known as ?histo spots? which remain at the site of the infection. While histo spots rarely affect vision, they can cause complications a period after the original vision. In later stages, ocular histoplasmosis syndrome becomes symptomatic with abnormal blood vessels affecting vision. Common symptoms of ocular histoplasmosis syndrome include: blind spots; wavy lines; vision distortions; histo spots; and, in severe cases, loss of vision.
22600	Symptoms includes changes in the color of the iris, blurry vision, loss of peripheral vision, floating vision, red eye and a growing dark spot on the iris.
22601	Affected individuals suffer from eye movement disorders such as diplopia, nystagmus, poor visual acuity, or cosmetic blemish from squint of the eyes.
22602	The affected eye of infected individuals experience floaters and blurred vision.
22603	Individuals with the syndrome usually have a distinct appearance, which may be apparent in their having unusually small eyes, webbed fourth and fifth fingers and, long and thin noses. They also have small teeth with underdeveloped tooth enamel thus, prone to caries.
22604	Individuals with the syndrome usually have a distinct appearance, which may be apparent in their having unusually small eyes, webbed fourth and fifth fingers and, long and thin noses. They also have small teeth with underdeveloped tooth enamel thus, prone to caries.
22605	Affected individuals have congenital cataracts, glaucoma, corneal leukomas, renal failure, curved growth in subsequent years, and neonatal hypotonia.
22606	Affected individuals usually have very pale skin, white to yellow hair, and light blue eyes.
22607	Affected individuals usually have more pigment and better vision compared with individuals who have Oculocutaneous albinism type 1. Slight pigmentation may develop into moles or freckles. Their hair are usually pale blonde to golden or reddish-blonde hair. Having blue eyes is one of their common characteristics. Those with African descent usually have yellow hair, pale skin, and blue, gray, or hazel eyes.
22608	Individuals affected with oculocutaneous albinism type 3 usually have red hair, reddish-brown skin, and blue or gray eyes.
22609	Patients with oculocutaneous albinism have lighter skin and hair color compared with other family members.
22610	Those affected with the condition have lmb contractures from birth, suffer from limited eye movement. They also experience reduced vision, pigmented macula, and retinal folds.
22613	A person's unreasonable fear of dentists and dental procedures causes him or her to frequently avoid dental treatment.
22614	A person is constantly distressed due to his or her fear of pain that is beyond normal expectations, which disrupt social and emotional functions.
22615	Edemas occur in different organs, the most common of which are in the brain and the kidneys. Among the symptoms of edemas is low blood serum, severe pain in the affected areas, and enlargement of the organs where edemas developed.
22616	The patient experiences pain and swelling in the abdomen and altered bowel movements.
22617	Primary, affected infants suffer from tonic seizures, but some cases may show partial seizures, and rarely, myoclonic seizures as well. Tonic seizures are generalized seizures characterized by a sudden stiffening of the limbs. Aside from seizures, Ohtahara syndrome also presents with profound physical and mental retardation.
22618	Most persons with oikophobia usually experience panic attacks when they are in a house. They also share common symptoms like sweating, nausea, and irregular heartbeat.
22620	Specific symptoms of oligodendroglioma vary according to where the tumor is actually located in the brain. In general, patients with oligodendroglioma may experience: changes in sensation; changes in movement; headache; seizure; vomiting; and raised intracranial pressure.
22621	The primary clinical manifestation of oligohydramnios is the decreased levels of amniotic fluid in a pregnant woman's gestational sac, often detected via an ultrasound. Along with this, certain symptoms may present as well, including: a womb size that's distinctively smaller for its gestational age; uterine contractions; and general discomfort in the abdomen. In some cases, there may also be an evident decline of fetal activity as well as a noticeable decrease in fetal heart rate. Most women with oligohydramnios will experience a relatively normal pregnancy.
22622	The most common symptoms of oligospermia are male subfertility and male infertility, which may be permanent or temporary. Other than a low sperm count and the consequent infertility it causes, there are no other symptoms associated with oligospermia.
22624	The signs and symptoms of Ollier disease are tissue hemangiomas in the hands and feet, shortening of the bones and development of sarcomas in the bone cartilage.
22625	Patients may experience shedding of the skin's outer layer, reddening of the skin, recurrent diarrhea, persistent bacterial infections, elevated count of white blood cells, enlarged liver and spleen, and swelling of lymph nodes.
22626	The virus has various symptoms that may include chills, headache, dehydration, or low blood pressure. It may also cause death or if the patient recovers, they may experience hearing loss, hair loss, or defficiencies in neurological conditions.
22627	Persons infected with the parasite may experience itching, swelling, and inflammation of the skin. Skin infections due to the parasite are graded and categorized based on its degree of skin involvement. Infection of the eyes can result in the occurence of punctate keratitis in the infected area, which clears up when the inflammation lessens. but if it is chronic, sclerosing keratitis occurs, which makes the affected area turn opaque and may result in blindness.
22628	Although most cases are asymptomatic, some symptoms may be Hematuria, abdominal mass, or flank pain.
22629	Individuals suffering from the disorder have a congenital failure to automatically control their breathing particularly when asleep. On rare circumstances and in severe cases, it may also occur while the patient is awake.
22631	The primary symptom of onychogryphosis is the nail of a toe (often the big toe) becoming abnormally thicker and distorted. In general, the symptoms of onychogryphosis can be summed up as an increase in nail thickness and an increase in nail curve. Onychogryphosis is most commonly seen in elderly patients.
22632	The nail plate may have a thickened, yellow, or cloudy appearance. The nails could become rough and crumbly, or can separate from the nail bed. Usually there is no pain or other bodily symptoms, unless the disease is severe.
22633	Oophoritis symptoms are similar to general symptoms of pelvic inflammatory diseases, and may include: pelvic pain; lower back pain; fever; side tenderness; as well as tenderness on internal examination. Because oophoritis primarily affects the ovaries, or a pair of reproductive organs that produces eggs in females, oophoritis may possibly lead to infertility in women.
22634	In early stages, open-angle glaucoma does not present with symptoms. It tends to develop gradually, with no initial visual discomforts until late in the course of the disease. By the time open-angle glaucoma becomes symptomatic, significant optic never damage and vision loss may have already occurred, with permanent repercussions. Initial warning signs may include: gradual vision deterioration; peripheral vision deterioration; dim peripheral vision; degraded side vision; tunnel vision; blurry or foggy vision; difficulty adjusting to brightness; halos around bright lights; as well as mild eye pain.
22635	Ophthalmitis - or eye inflammation disorders in general - presents with: mild to severe eye pain; eye swelling; disturbances in vision; distinctive inflammation in the eye; reddish appearance of the eye; as well as eye discharges.
22636	Among the symptoms of the Opitz syndrome is mental retardation, microcephaly, presence of extra fingers and toes, weak muscles and dysfunctional internal organs such as the heart, lungs and kidneys.
22637	The infected individual may suffer from certain infections including Pneumocystis jirovecii, which was previously known as Pneumocystis carinii f. hominis. Other types of infections that may be suffered by the individual includes among others, Candida albicans, Staphylococcus aureus, Streptococcus pyogenes, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, Acinetobacter baumanni, Toxoplasma gondii, Cytomegalovirus, Aspergillus sp., or Kaposi's Sarcoma.
22638	The symptoms of a child having an oppositional defiant disorder are based on individuals with comparable age and developmental level. The child frequently shows at least four negative, hostile, and defiant behaviors for at least 6 months, such as losing temper, arguing with adults, actively defying or refusing to comply with adults' requests or rules, deliberately annoying people, blaming others for his or her mistakes or misbehavior, touchy or easily annoyed by others, angry and resentful, or spiteful or vindictive. The behaviors have interfered with the child's normal functions.
22638	Oppositional defiant disorder if your child's oppositional behaviors: Are persistent, Have lasted at least six months, Are clearly disruptive to the family and home or school environment While the following are behaviors associated with ODD: Negativity, Defiance, Disobedience, Hostility directed toward authority figures.
22639	The primary symptom of opththalmoplegia is eye muscle paralysis, which may occur alongside: eye muscle weakness; eye muscle wasting; impairment in eyeball movement; as well as difficulty or inability to move the eyes.
22640	Patients have symptoms that are associated with vision loss.
22641	The condition appears gradually. Thus, symptoms are not immediately noticed in the early stages. Often, the symptoms are noticed only after vision tests are done on a patient. Symptoms may be difficulty of color vision, or total loss of vision. The patient may also have discoloration of optic discs in both eyes, which is inherited. Symptoms typicall show in children between 4-6 years old.
22642	Optic disc drusen is usually undetectable in children. But with age the drusen is exposed and more visible. The symptoms are relative to the visibility of the drusen. Most of the patients develop some peripheral field defects such as nasal step defects, enlarged blind spots, sectoral field loss, and altitudinal defects.
22643	Patients may suddenly loss their vision, which is sometimes accompanied with pain. Others patient's affected eye loss of color vision.
22644	An initial sign of oral and throat cancer is a distinct change in the appearance or sensation of the soft tissues of the patient's mouth. In addition, affected individuals may experience soreness in their mouth which doesn't heal, but rather, increases in size. Patches or lumps may also appear inside the mouth. Patients may have difficulty swallowing, chewing, or moving their tongue or jaw. Other indicative signs include: persistent pain in the mouth, pain around the teeth, tongue numbness, voice changes, neck lumps, and bad breath.
22645	Skin lesion, lump, or ulcer: On the tongue, lip, or other mouth area; Usually small; Most often pale colored, may be dark or discolored; Early sign may be a white patch (leukoplakia) or a red patch (erythroplakia) on the soft tissues of the mouth; Usually painless initially; May develop a burning sensation or pain when the tumor is advanced.
22646	Oral candidiasis typically presents with thick whitish or cream-colored deposits in the mouth. Beneath these deposits, the mucosa of the mouth may be slightly raised, appear red, and seem inflamed. In infants, oral candidiasis is known as oral thrush and is often painless. In adults, the infection typically causes discomfort or burning. Other symptoms linked to oral candidiasis are: digestive problems; intense craving for sugar, bread or alcohol; depression; fatigue; as well as joint or muscle pains.
22648	Patients usually have lacy white patches, raised red mouth sores, or ulcers that may cause dry mouth, or painful burning sensations. They may also have distinct skin rashes particularly on the forearms. Other patients however, may not show symptoms of the disease.
22649	Symptoms includes the presence and production of white and usually creamy lesions in the tongue and the inner cheeks including the roof of the mouth, tonsils and the gums.
22650	Symptoms includes swelling of one of both of the testicles that is usually tender and painful, nausea, discharge from the penis, fever and occurrence of blood in the semen.
22651	Lesions on the fingers, the hands, or the forearms Regional adenitis Mild fever and malaise Lesions that are large and fungating
22651	Orf infections in humans are characterized by: the appearance of painful red skin lumps or blisters; visible skin infection on hands and/or forearms; as well as swollen lymph nodes in the armpit area. Orf can occur in the hands, fingers, arms, face, and even the penis (caused by infection from the hand during urination). In general, Orf is a benign, harmless disease. However, in some cases, it can progress into life-threatening proportions, particularly when the host is immune-compromised.
22652	Symptoms are based on the responsible disease. Patients may be confused; have impaired memory, judgment, and intellectual function; and agitated. The symptoms are usually attributed to psychiatric illness causing diagnostic difficulty.
22653	After a 5-14 day incubation period, the infected person has inapparent illness or systemic illness with severe pneumonia. During the first week, severe headache may occur. In severe cases, stupor or coma can result. In the second week, high fever continues. Severe pneumonia that would require an intensive-care support may also occur.
22654	An early sign of oropharyngeal cancer is the appearance of a pale lump inside the mouth that doesn't go away over time or a distinctive change in the way the mouth's soft tissues look and feel. Often, this carcinoma is painless in the initial stages, occasionally exhibiting symptoms that can be mistaken for other mild conditions such as a toothache. Common symptoms of oropharyngeal cancer include: soreness in the mouth that gradually increases; persistent pain in the mouth; lumps of white, red, or dark patches appearing in the mouth; thickening of the cheek; chewing and swallowing difficulties; swelling or pain in the jaw; pain around the teeth; numbness in the tongue or elsewhere in the mouth; changes in voices; lumps appearing on the neck; and bad breath.
22655	Patients have excess orotic acid in the urine and megaloblastic anemia. The condition may inhibit RNA and DNA synthesis resulting in the patient's failure to thrive, which may lead to mental and physical retardation.
22656	Symptoms of orthorexia nervosa may include obsession with healthy eating, emaciation, and death by starvation. Orthorexic subjects typically have specific feelings through different types of food.
22657	Its symptoms includes occurrence of lightheadedness, dizziness when standing up after a long sit or lying down. It also includes having blurred vision, weakness, syncope, confusion, headache, and nausea.
22658	Symptoms may be due to long periods of standing in line, standing in a shower, or even sitting at a desk; inadequate intake of fluid and salt; a warm environment after exercise; or experiencing emotionally stressful events. Individuals may experience lightheadedness, headache, fatigue, or altered vision.
22659	Patients commonly experience pain and swelling directly over the tibial tubercle is most common and may exacerbated during high impact activities or even walking. Symptoms may recur after treatment until the patient has skeletal maturity or when the tibial epiphysis fuses.
22660	Patients with a mild case of the disease do not experience symptoms. They may sometimes confuse bone pain with arthritis or other disorders.
22661	The signs and symptoms of osteoarthritis include pain in joint especially during and after user or prolonged periods of inactivity. Stiffness and tenderness of the joints that is more noticeable in the morning, grating sensation, bone spurs, and swelling. These symptoms manifest more on certain areas such as the knees, hips, hands and spine.
22662	Lameness is one of the major presenting symptoms of OCD. It usually occurs between 4-8 months of age. Males are known to be three times more prone victims of this condition than females. Lameness may manifest as a sudden event. This condition generally diminishes with rest and worsens with exercise
22663	Pain is the primary symptom of osteochondritis dissecans that tends to manifest in sharp and aching sensations. Other key symptoms include locking of the joint, clicking sound during movement, decrease joint movement, limping, stiffness after resting, swelling and tenderness.
22664	The primary symptom of most types of osteochondroses is pain in the affected joint, which intensifies when pressure is applied. In addition, the affected joint may become locked and limited range of motion also occurs.
22665	The most common symptoms of osteochondroma includes the following: ò a hard, immobile, and often detectable painless mass ò pressure or irritation that is associated with exercise ò a lower-than-the average-height for the patient's age ò a leg or an arm may be longer than the other ò soreness of some adjacent muscles
22666	The characteristics of OI may vary greatly from one person to another, even among patients suffering from the same type of OI or those with similar hereditary disposition. Some of the symptoms include these manifestations: triangular face, spinal curvature, brittle teeth, hair loss, and underdeveloped lungs.
22667	Each patient may experience different symptoms. However, the most common signs include pain at the site of the tumor growth, increase pain during activities, swelling and possible redness of the affected area and limping.
22669	Osteoid osteomas are described as tiny tumors that do not grow beyond half an inch in diameter. They typically manifest with the following symptoms: dull or sharp pain that worsens at night; pain that is usually relieved by aspirin or other anti-inflammatory drugs; limping; painful scoliosis and muscle spasticity (particularly when the tumor is located in the spine); disturbances in growth and development (when the tumor is involved with a bone's growth plate); muscle atrophy; bowing deformity; as well as nerve symptoms (such as sciatica) when located in the spine. While osteoid osteomas cause painful symptoms, they are generally considered benign because they do not usually harm the host bone. In young children, however, tumors appearing near a growth plate may deform the host bone. In general, osteoid osteomas do not metastasize and never become cancerous.
22670	In general, osteoma is characterized by a tumor growing in a bone. Specific symptoms vary according to the location or site of the tumor. Some cases of osteoma are asymptomatic.
22671	Sometimes the symptoms associated with osteomalacia can be very vague. Patients mostly experience simple aches and pain that does not really raise an alarm during the early stages. As the condition develops, the pain becomes more prominent and lasting. Areas that are usually affected are the hips and lower back. Bone tenderness and muscle weakness may also be noticed.
22672	The symptoms of osteomyelitis greatly vary and may depend on the underlying cause as well as the rate of the spread of infection. Among the most common symptoms include fever, tenderness and pain in the affected area, irritability, redness and swelling and possible limping and stiff back.
22673	The early osteonecrosis symptoms may be mistaken with arthritis. Sporadic discomfort can gradually develop into serious pain that will require immediate medical condition. The hip and groin area are the usual target locations of this disease.
22674	Symptoms occurring during later stages include fractures of the vertebrae, wrists or hips (usually the first indication); low back pain; neck pain; bone pain and tenderness; loss of height over time; and a stooped posture.
22675	This condition is made apparent at birth or the very first few months of the child's life. The common symptoms include low calcium, pressure of the optic nerves and bone fractures.
22676	Most osteophytes are asymptomatic. But some can cause pain, and loss of motion in the joints, and swelling and tears in some areas.
22678	The osteoporosis condition can develop without any visible symptoms for many decades. This is mainly because osteoporosis does not cause symptoms other than bone fractures, usually in the advanced stage. The dowager hump is one of the most common symptom of osteoporosis.
22679	Initial signs of osteosarcoma involve pain, tenderness, and swelling in the affected area. Like most sarcomas, osteosarcoma tends to metastasize or spread beyond the original tumor site to other areas of the body. In some cases, osteosarcoma weakens the bones and obstructs movement, sometimes causing a fracture. More specific symptoms of osteosarcoma depend on the location and size of the cancer. In general, common symptoms of osteosarcoma include: tiredness, fever, weight loss, and anemia.
22680	The symptoms that are associated with this disease are fractures, optic atrophy, protruding forehead, bone pain, facial palsy, osteomyelitis and anemia.
22681	Otitis may manifest with the following signs in children: frequent tugging or pulling of the ears; more frequent crying; sleep disturbances; failure to respond to sounds; irritability; fever; ear discharges; and headaches.
22682	Some symptoms of this condition are: severe pain on moving the outer ear; pain or discomfort in or around the ear; itching of the outer ear, swelling in the ear or lymph nodes in the neck; decreased or muffled hearing, and redness of the outer ear.
22683	Serous otitis media may not cause any symptoms; however, fluid remaining in the middle ear for a long period of time may result in hearing loss. However, this condition can develop on its own, it most commonly occurs after being treated for acute otitis media.
22684	Symptoms include hearing loss and tinnitus. The loss of hearing is progressive in nature but the rate greatly varies. This medical condition may also accompany dizziness and disequilibrium.
22685	Among the most common symptoms associated with OSMED includes abnormal vertebral size and/or shape, deafness, flattened nose, restricted joint mobility, metaphyseal anomaly, carpal bone fusion. Lordosis, and cleft palate.
22686	The sooner the ovarian cancer is detected and treated, the better the chance for recovery. However, this type of cancer is difficult to detect. Among the common syumotoms include vaginal bleeding, pain in lower abdomen, abnormal periods, vomiting, nausea and gas.
22687	If you have an ovarian cyst, you may experience the following signs and symptoms: Menstrual irregularities; Pelvic pain a constant or intermittent dull ache that may radiate to your lower back and thighs; Pelvic pain shortly before your period begins or just before it ends; Pelvic pain during intercourse (dyspareunia); Pain during bowel movements or pressure on your bowels; Nausea, vomiting or breast tenderness similar to that experienced during pregnancy; Fullness or heaviness in your abdomen.
22689	Among the symptoms of overactive bladder are: the feeling of a strong, sudden urge to urinate; urge incontinence or the unintended loss of urine immediately following an urgent need to urinate; frequent urination, usually eight or more times in 24 hours; and nocturia or nighttime urination.
22690	Among the symptoms of overactive thyroid are sudden and inexplicable weight loss, rapid heartbeat (tachycardia), irregular heartbeat (arrhythmia) or palpitations, nervousness, anxiety or anxiety attacks, tremor, changes in menstrual and bowel patterns, and goiter.
22691	The symptoms of overuse syndrome include repetitive muscle activities despite poor working conditions. This is more of an established mindset on the patient, since he is used to doing the same routine despite the stress.
22692	Patients with OPSI suffer clinical symptoms that include sudden onset of fever, headache malaise, abdominal pain and vomiting. When left without immediate medical care, the patient deteriorates rapidly into what is known as the septic shock that is typically accompanied with some intravascular coagulopathy. Macules, petechiae, papules and gangrene may also be among the skin manifestations.
22693	A nodule in the neck, enlarged and swollen lymph nodes, also in the neck, pain in the neck or throat, hoarseness or other changes in the voice, shortness of breath, and trouble swallowing are some of the symptoms of this condition.
22694	Specific symptoms of Pachydermoperiostosis include the enlargement of the patient's fingers and toes. This condition features fibrous covering present on the ends of the long bones, and often accompanied with coarse facial features as well as an increased mass of the skin development on the scalp that results to the formation of folds, furrows and depressions.
22695	Malformations of the cerebral cortex are often associated with symptoms that include reduced longevity, severe epilepsy, reproductive damage, fetal lethality, major developmental disabilities, spasticity and mental retardation.
22696	The list of clinical signs and symptoms associated with Pacman syndrome include short head and hand bones, stillbirth, infant death, short limbs and abnormally short stature. Some patients who are lucky enough to live suffer from heart defects and flat vertebrae.
22697	Symptoms of Peripheral artery disease include leg pain when walking, numbness of the leg, cramping, and sores on the limbs that won't heal.
22698	Among the typical symptoms of Paget's disease is pain in the bone and joints. The nerves may also be invariably affected since the enlarged bones may compress the nerves. Due to intense pressure, the patient may also feel a tingling sensation, weakness, double vision and hearing loss.
22699	Paget's disease of the breast primarily affects the nipple as well as the surrounding skin. Dermatitis is one of the symptoms where breast skin tends to be scaly or flaky. Other signs include itching, redness and tingling as well as an inverted of flattened nipple.
22700	Paget's disease type 1 is a gradual progression and most people hardly notice they have this condition. The normal symptoms include the unusually pain in the bone, lethargy, and unusually brittle bones.
22701	Among the symptoms of the Painful Bladder Syndrome are urgent and frequent urination and pelvic pain.
22702	The symptom of this medical condition is the persistent pain during sexual intercourse.
22704	The most common sign of palate cancer is a painful swelling in the roof of the mouth. The pain and swelling frequently manifest alongside: the appearance of a distinctive lump; dysphagia; difficulty or pain in swallowing; mouth ulcers; night sweats; and unintended weight loss.
22705	Paleness is a symptom of other more serious illness. Signs of paleness however are a dull skin color caused by a low red blood cell count, fatigue and weakness. Behavior is also affected by paleness.
22706	Symptoms include joint pain and swelling, skin nodules and joint redness.
22707	The symptoms of the illness include mental retardation, hypotonia, epilepsy, hyperpigmentation as well as hypopigmentation. Patients also show unusual facial features and deafness. Some patients meanwhile have system problems linked with the disease, such as congenital heart defects.
22708	The symptoms of the Pallister-Hall disease include growth retardation, pituitary aplasia, short nose, flat midface, forward tilting nostrils, hypothalamic hamartoblastoma, external ear anomalies, microtia, small lower jaw, laryngeal cleft, and absent lung.
22710	Persons with palmoplantar hyperhidrosis usually experience excessive sweating of the hands and feet, regardless of the weather and other external conditions. This kind of sweating doesn't, however, take place when one's asleep.
22711	Symptoms include hyperhidosis, thickened nails, aberrant keratotic lesions - all symptoms may worsen as the patient ages.
22712	The primary symptom of palpitation is the distinctive awareness of one's own heartbeat. These palpitation attacks vary in frequency, and may last for a few seconds or as long as a few hours. Other symptoms associated with palpitation include: faintness, sweating, dizziness, and chest pain.
22713	Patients with cerebral palsy exhibit lack of muscle coordination, excessive swelling as well as difficulty in speaking and swallowing, scissored gait, shaking, and one foot usually drag. The symptoms may differ in severity and type and can every change through time.
22714	Most of the patients that are born with pancreas divisum usually don't experience any symptoms all throughout their lifetime. This is the reason why is can go undiagnosed and would usually not require any treatment. Repeated episodes of pancreatitis is the main symptom.
22715	Signs and symptoms associated with pancreatic cancer may not often occur until the disease is in the advanced stage. Symptoms include yellowing of the skin, weight lossm depression, abdominal pains that radiates to the back.
22716	Many people who have pancreatic cysts do not experience any symptom. In advanced stages, the patient may feel a persistent pain in the abdomen, abdominal mass as well as vomiting and nausea.
22719	Among the clinical symptoms include sweating, anxiety, tremors, hunger, dizziness, a rapid heart arte, confusion, clouding vision, convulsions, behavioral changes. Development of skin rashes may occur which may be evident in the abdomen area, face, buttocks as well as along the lower extremities. In severe cases, patients may experience peptic ulcer pain, diarrhea, and vomiting with blood.
22720	Signs and symptoms of acute pancreatitis include: Nausea and vomiting; Fever; Rapid pulse; Swollen, tender abdomen; in severe cases, dehydration and low blood pressure, internal bleeding, and shock.
22721	Among the most common symptoms of Pancreatoblastoma include upper abdominal pain, asymptomatic, vomiting, jaundice, abdominal mass, loss of appetite, enlarged abdomen, fatigue and gastrointestinal obstruction.
22722	Most children usually display a very dramatic, "overnight" onset of the symptoms, which includes vocal and motor tics, compulsions and/or compulsions. In addition to the symptoms, children have the tendency to become unusually moody, irritable as well as show concerns such as being separated from parents.
22723	Hypopituitarism is typically progressive in nature. Symptoms include fatigue, muscle weakness, nausea, constipation, weight loss, loss of appetite, abdominal discomfort, some visual disturbances, joint stiffness, hoarseness, headaches and excessive urination.
22724	Panic attack symptoms include rapid heart movement, sweating, shortness of breath, hyperventilation, trembling, chills, hot flashes, chest pains, nausea, abdominal cramping, dizziness, headaches and the sense of impending death.
22725	Panic attack symptoms include unusual palpitation of the heart, trembling, chills, hyperventilation and nausea.
22726	Panic Disorder sufferers usually have a series of intense episodes of extreme anxiety, known as panic attacks. These attacks typically last 10 minutes, but can be as short as 1-5 minutes. Although, attacks can wax and wane for a period of hours-one panic attack rolling into another.
22727	The appearance of one or multiple nodules in the subcutaneous fat is the primary symptom of the acute panniculitis. The nodules are typically tender and may tend to drain an oily solution and pus. These lesions would usually last for 1-8 weeks before it disappears, leaving a pigmented depressed spot.
22729	Symptoms of panthophobia include sweating,nausea, breathlessness, dry mouth, heart palpitations, as well as inability to think and speak.
22730	The symptoms of papilledema include headaches, nausea and vomiting, double vision, as well as the blurring, flickering or graying of the vision.
22731	In initial stages, papilloedema typically does not cause symptoms. However, in its more severe form, papilloedema presents with: blurry vision; visual obscurations (such as an inability to see in a part of the visual field for a period of time); and even actual loss of vision.
22732	In the context of the human papillomavirus (HPV), papillomas can be described as warts that are typically itchy but often asymptomatic. In most cases, papilloma does not cause any other apparent symptoms. When it does become symptomatic, the disease presents with tiny, hard spots that are easily visible to the naked eye. These spots develop 3 weeks to 3 months after exposure to HPV. In females, these warts appear on the lips of the vagina, inside the vagina, or around the anus. Some warts may also appear on the skin of hands, legs, feet, and even the face.
22734	Lymph nodes would become swollen when infected by Paracoccidioides, and may drain pus, although there is little or no sensation of pain. The lymph nodes most frequently infected are those found under the arms and neck. Painful ulcers can possibly form in the mouth. In cases where the lungs are affected, the person may also have cough and difficulty breathing.
22735	Among the first symptoms of a Paragangliomas or the glomus tumor in the ear is commonly the pulsatile tinnitus, which will eventually be followed by conductive loss of hearing. Tumors that originate in the middle ear are clinically visible even when small and usually seen in the jugular vein. As the tumor develops, it can cause parlysis of the 7th, 9th as well as the 10th cranial nerves.
22736	In general, symptoms of parainfluenza viruses include: fever; nonproductive to minimally productive cough; nasal congestion; inspiratory stridor; pharyngeal erythema; rales; rhonchi; and wheezing. In most cases, the epiglottis is greatly swollen due to viral infection, consequently causing severe airway obstruction. In severe cases, such as in immunocompromised hosts, parainfluenza virus can lead to serious complications such as respiratory failure and death.
22737	The primary symptom of paralysis is loss of muscle function, which may occur alongside a loss of feeling or sensation in the affected area. More specific symptoms vary according to the area or location of paralysis.
22738	Common signs and symptoms of paralytic ileus include: abdominal pain; abdominal bloating; vomiting; constipation; difficulty or inability to defecate; inability to pass gas; lack of peristalsis; and absence of bowel sounds.
22739	Paralytic shellfish poisoning can be potentially fatal, particularly when affecting immunosuppressed individuals and children. Symptoms typically manifest 10-30 minutes after ingestion, and may include: abdominal pain, vomiting, nausea, diarrhea, as well as a tingling or burning sensation appearing in various areas, most notably in face, neck, arms, legs, toes, lips, gums, and tongue. Other less common symptoms of paralytic shellfish poisoning include: shortness of breath; dry mouth; feelings of choking; speech distortions; confusion; and lack of coordination.
22740	Symptoms of Paramyotonia congenital are typically evident at birth which includes muscle stiffness and general weakness, affecting the neck, face as well as the upper extremities. These episodes often last for a few minutes to several hours. Temporary paralysis may also occur.
22741	Among the symptoms of paranasal sinus cancer is pain behind the teeth and nose, swelling, double vision, headaches, persistent nosebleeds and speech problems.
22742	With PCD, the immune system produces hostile antibodies which are then transported to the circulatory system. This affects brain functions causing uncontrolled motor and gait coordination, slurred speech, difficulty in swallowing, loss of muscle tone as well as uncontrollable movement of the patient's eyes. In advanced cases, the patients are known to experience blindness, dementia as well as memory loss.
22743	Symptoms of paraneoplastic syndromes often appear rapidly and progress over time. They may even manifest even before a cancer is diagnosed. Specific symptoms depend on the type of disorder, but common signs include: difficulty walking; loss of balance; swallowing problems; loss of muscle mass; loss of motor coordination; distorted speech; memory loss; vision problems; sleep disturbances; dementia; seizures; dizziness, and numbness and tingling in the limbs.
22744	Among the signs and symptoms associated with paraomphalocele include abdominal lump, protusion of the abdominal wall, reduced motility of the gut as well as impaired absorption.
22745	Paraphilias are typically referred to as sexual perversions or deviations. Symptoms include sexual urges involving objects, unusual sexual practices and behaviors. This may involve inflicting pain and humiliation to another person or involving under-aged and as well as non-consenting adults. Common forms of paraphilias include fetishism, voyeurism, exhibitionism, pedophilia, frotteurism, sadism, masochism and transvestitism.
22746	The primary symptom of paraphimosis is foreskin that is trapped behind the glans penis. Other than this main characteristic, paraphimosis rarely presents with symptoms. When it does become symptomatic, paraphimosis presents with penile pain and obstructive voiding symptoms. Upon examination, the glans penis may appear swollen, enlarged, and congested with a collar of edematous foreskin. The rest of the penile shaft may look normal. If untreated, paraphimosis can lead to necrosis of the glans penis, which may ultimately need partial amputation.
22747	Symptoms of paraplegia include leg paralysis, bladder control problems, bladder and fecal incontinence and lower body paralysis.
22748	Symptoms include red lesions in the skin which are often scaly.
22748	Symptoms include red lesions in the skin which are often scaly.
22749	Symptoms of Parasitophobia includes getting distressed and uncomfortable in the presence or sight of a known parasite of which he or she believes could harm her or him.
22750	Paratyphoid fever is often associated with high fever, constipation or diarrhea, headache, vomiting, and loss of appetite. The patient will also typically develop enlarged spleen. Some patients also manifest rose spots on the chest especially during the first week of acquiring the disease. These spots will then develop into minute hemorrhages.
22751	Symptoms involves the obvious inability of one person to defecate successfully unless they feel comfortable or feel a certain level of privacy. People suffering from this disorder often are not comfortable going away too far from their place and also develop constipation because they cannot defecate regularly.
22752	Paresthesia may be either transient or chronic. Transient paresthesia are those that are common but temporary, such as the occasional tingling of the hands, mouth, and feet. Chronic paresthesia is a more serious form of this condition, and tends to occur more frequently and at longer periods.
22753	Most patients with Parkinson's disease suffer from lowered stimulation especially of the motor cortex in the basal ganglia. Other symptoms of this disorder that will manifest in the patients are high level of cognitive dysfunction and slight speech problems. Parkinson's disease is often characterized by tremor, rigidity of the muscle, bradykinesia, and in some very extreme cases, patients would loose physical movements or what they call as akinesia.
22754	Most common symptom associated with Parkinsonism is ridity, instability of posture, hypokinesia, stiff muscles, and tremor.
22755	Paronychia or bacterial nail infection usually affects the proximal part of the nail fold of the finger. It does not usually affect the toe area. In acute cases, the proximal nail fold turns red, may contain pus, becomes swollen, and is usually painful. In chronic cases, the proximal nail fold becomes swollen, has no cuticle, and turns red. It affects one or even more nails.
22756	The most common symptoms of parotid gland cancer are: pain; palpable nodes; facial nerve palsy; and the appearance of a distinctive lump. Parent types of Parotid gland cancer are oral cancer and mouth cancer.
22757	Parotitis symptoms range in severity, and may include: swollen parotid glands; swollen glands near jaw and cheek; face pain swelling of the parotid glands; fever; headaches; sore throat; swelling of the temples or jaw (temporomandibular area); esticle lump; and scrotal swelling.
22758	Patients with this disease often will manifest hemoglobinuria in the urine and can suffer mild to severe anemia.
22759	Primary symptoms include tiredness, abnormal palpitations of the heart, and shortness of breath. There are also presence of hemoglobin and hemosiderin in the urine.
22760	Parry-Romberg syndrome manifest symptoms, which includes severe facial pain and seizures. There are also some facial changes involving the tissues found above the upper jaw or the maxilla or in the nasolabial fold or the area in between the nose and the corner of the upper lip. This will soon progress to other parts near until all the parts of the face have been damaged..
22761	cough, but not major chest pain (unusual) breathing complexity low oxygen diffusion fever--debatable; no proof to sustain this, though it is widely established pleural effusion (transudate type) cyanosis (late sign) augmented heart rate
22762	Parturiphobia can manifest many symptoms like nightmares, psychosomatic complaints, patients will find it difficult to concentrate on work or on other activities of the family, and panic attacks.
22763	Symptoms of this condition include uneasiness when around many people in public restrooms.
22764	Symptoms include the occurrence of the slight fever, unusual and recurrent headache, itching, upset stomach, fatigue, sore throat, and bright red rashes on both cheeks.
22765	Common symptoms are cellulites, swelling, redness, tenderness and discharge at the infected site, regional lymphadenopathy, chills, fever, high level of leukocyte and neutrophil.
22766	For embryos who survive the gestation period and subsequent birth, they manifest symptoms of Patau syndrome like mental and motor retardedness, polydactyly or extra digits, microcephaly, low-set ears, holoprosencephaly, some defects of the heart, structural defects in the eye, hare lip, cleft palate, defect in the spinal cord, abdominal defect, abnormal genitalia, abnormal pattern of the palm, fingers over lapping the thumb.
22767	The pain usually is located in the section of your patellar tendon between your kneecap (patella) and the area where the tendon attaches to your shinbone (tibia).
22768	The symptoms of patellofemoral pain syndrome are generally a vague discomfort of the inner knee area, aggravated by activity (running, jumping, climbing or descending stairs) or by prolonged sitting with knees in a moderately bent position (the so called "theater sign" of pain upon arising from a desk or theater seat).
22770	Symptoms of Patent ductus are not common but during the first year of the child's life, the child will manifest uneasy breathing making the child work harder to cope up. The child will have poor weight gain. Other common symptoms also include tachycardia or other arrhythmia, some respiratory problems, shortness of breath, continuous machine-like murmur when breathing, and an enlarged heart.
22771	Unlike any other kind of diseases, a patent foramen ovale does not usually exhibit any symptoms.
22772	A pathological gambler exhibits the following symptoms: spending a lot of time gambling and thinking about gambling, inability to cut back or quit the vice despite deleterious personal and social consequences, feeling the need to gamble larger amounts of money, lying about the amount of money and time spent on gambling, and commiting crimes just so to get money to gamble.
22773	Symptoms include the powerful urge to steal items not for personal gain, feeling gratified during the theft but feeling terrible guilt or shame after it.
22774	Patterson syndrome or pseudoleprechaunism is manifested by the unusual facial appearance or features of the patient which is almost similar to that look of patients having Leprechaunism. The syndrome mainly affected the connective tissue of the patients specially that of the face as well as the neuroendocrine system. This effects then gives rise to hyperpigmentation with somewhat bronze in color. Other effects include cutis laxa arising in the hands and the feet, disproportioning of the body, extremely severe mental retardedness, and cause real great deformities of the bones. A characteristic skeletal dysplasia is revealed through Radiographs and most often affects the bones in general. It comprises endocrine abnormality, hyperadrenocorticism, cushingoid features, and diabetes mellitus. One other case has shown premature adrenarche.
22775	Among the symptoms of the disease are poor feeding, weakness of the muscles, and lethargy. When not treated, the disease can lead the patient into coma.
22776	Symptoms for peanut allergy include skin reactions such as redness, swelling and hives, It can also include itching or tingling sensation in as well as around the throat and mouth, digestive problems such as diarrhea and cramps, nasal congestion and shortness of breath.
22777	Symptoms of peanut hypersensistivity can include vomiting, diarrhea, urticaria, angioedema or swelling of the throut, lips, and face, acute pain in the abdomen, exacerbation of the atopic eczema, asthma, and anaphylactic shock.
22778	The hallmark of the condition is a sunken appearance of the sternum. Then the heart is displaced and rotated. Mitral valve prolapse could also be present. Base lung capacity will decrease.
22779	Symptoms for Pediatric T-cell leukemia often was associated to an enlarged thymus that can, in rare times, cause difficulty in breathing. It is also associated with the early spread of the thymus to the fluid surrounding the brain down to the spinal cord called the cerebrospinal fluid.
22780	Most of the time, people infested with lice do a lot of itching associated with excessive scratching of the area where the infestation occured.
22781	Symptoms include intense itchiness of the scalp, lice on the scalp, and lice eggs on hair shafts, among others.
22783	The symptoms of pellagra include: High sensitivity to sunlight; Aggression; Dermatitis, alopecia, oedema; Smooth, beefy red glossitis; Red skin lesions; Insomnia; Weakness.
22784	Pelvic inflammatory disease has no actual symptoms. If the patient should manifest any, it would include fever, pain in the lower abdomen, tenderness of cervical motion, different kind of discharge, pain during intercourse, and irregular menstruation.
22785	Pelvic lipomatosis usually presents symptoms that are similar to that of the urinary tract infection. It includes frequent urination, lower back pain, suprapubic tenderness, flank pain, recurrent UTI's, and fever. Other clinical symptoms include hematuria, constipation, dysuria, rectal bleeding, nocturia, tenesmus, ribbon-like stools accompanied with mucus, and edema in the legs or the lower extremities.
22786	Symtoms of pemphigus usually appears as lesions or blisters scattered throughout the patients' skin.
22787	Pemphigus foliaceus is manifested by a crusty sores which begins first on the scalp and moves down to the face, the chest, and back.
22788	Symptoms for pemphigus vulgaris includes sores in the mouth, loss of appetite, weight loss, and weakness among others.
22789	The most common symptom for pendred syndrome is deafness.
22790	Symptoms of penicillin allergy include hives, wheezing, rash, itchy skin and swollen tongue, face and lips. In severe cases, some people experience anaphylactic shock that causes the constriction of the airways that causes extreme difficulty in breathing along with weak pulse. This can be fatal when left unattended.
22791	Some cases of penile candidiasis may show no symptoms at all. When it does become symptomatic, the most common presentations are the appearance of a rash in the penis accompanied by severe itching, soreness, irritation, and an intense burning sensation in that area. Reddish, patchy sores typically appear on the foreskin or near the head of the penis.
22792	Cancer of the penis may manifest with some sores or growth found on the penis. A noticeable amount of bleeding may also occur. Also, some abnormal discharges or uncharacteristic secretion of liquid coming from the penis may be observed.
22793	Symptoms for Pentalogy of Cantrell will involve the middle chest area wherein the fetus failed to develop normally and the diaphragm failed to close successfully.
22794	There is not a direct symptom identified to be associated with Pentosuria. Although, it may demonstrate symptoms simillar to that of diabetes.
22795	The common symptom among all cases of peptic ulcer is abdominal pain, usually after meals. Peptic ulcer symptoms may also include bloating or abdominal fullness, waterbrash, nausea, vomiting, loss of appetite, weight loss, vomiting of blood, melena and a few cases of gastric perforation that would require immediate surgery.
22796	In Periarteritis nodosa, symptoms usually result from the damage of the affected organs. in most cases, the affected organs are the skin, nervous system, heart, and the kidneys. Symptoms generally include weakness, fever, loss of appetite, fatigue, and loss of weight. Patients will also likely to suffer from muscle and joint aches. Skin lumps, rashes, swelling, and ulcers are also evident. Affected nerve will also cause some changes in the sensory including weakness, numbness, pain, and burning sensation. In cases when the central nervous system is already involved, patients will suffer from either strokes or even seizures. Renal failure in varrying degrees may also be experienced when the affected organ is the Kidney. Patients will also suffer heart attacks, pericarditis or the inflammation of the sac surrounding the heart, and heart failure.
22797	Sharp, stabbing pain in the left side of the chest. Patients suffering from this disease may also experience their chest pain as a dull or pressure-like pain of varying intensity. Other symptoms include: shortness of breath, fever, weakness or fatigue, dry cough and abdominal or leg swelling.
22798	Persons suffering from PLF may experience some dizziness, vertigo, imbalance, nausea, and vomiting. Some experience ringing or fullness in the ears and hearing loss. Some symptoms worsen with sudden movement or activity.
22799	Symptoms manifested by patients suffering from perilymphatic fistula include sensorineural hearing loss, vertigo, motion intolerance, unsteadiness, tinnitus, dysequilibrium, and aural fullness.
22800	Symptoms of perinatal infection caused by chlamydial pneumonia includes a repetitive cough and a rapid breathing. In infants, wheezing is often rare and the baby will not have fever.
22801	The most common symptom of Periodic Fever, Aphthous Stomatitis, Pharyngitis and Adenitis are, as its name implies, periodic high fever, adenitis, aphthous ulcers, and pharyngitis.
22802	Persons with periodic paralysis experience sudden weakness whenever they get exposed to the above-mentioned triggers.
22803	Patients with Periodonditis manifests symptoms like occasional redness of the gums and bleeding when being brushed or when using dental floss. In sever cases bleeding can be observed when the patient bites hard food like apples, gum swellings that recurs occasionaly, bad breath, persistent metallic taste, gingival recession, deep pockets in between the gums and the teeth, and loose teeth.
22804	Symptoms of Peripartum Cardiomyopathy includes orthopnea or the patients' difficulty breathing while lying on the bed flat, shortness of breath when exerting effort, pitting edema or swelling, frequent urination at night, cough, excessive increase in weight during the last months of being pregnant, palpitations, and chest pain. Some women will also have liver failure five weeks after giving birth.
22805	Symptoms of Peripheral neuropathy includes numbness, gait imbalance, tremor, some tingling, crawling, pain, pins and needles, and itching. The patient's skin can become so hypersensitive that touching or having anything touch parts of their body is avoided. Patients become weak, tired, feeling of heaviness, and some abnormalities involving the gait.
22806	Claudication is a pain, weakness, or cramping in muscles due to decreased blood flow; Sores, wounds, or ulcers that heal slowly or not at all; Noticeable change in color (blueness or paleness) or temperature (coolness) when compared to the other limb; Diminished hair and nail growth on affected limb and digits.
22807	Symptoms of Peritoneal mesothelioma include pain in the abdomen and its swelling, abdominal tissue lumps, change in bowel habits as well as constipation and unexplained and sudden weight loss.
22808	Symptoms go undetected for a long time. When they do appear, the most common symptoms of peritoneum cancer are: loss of appetite, nausea, vague indigestion, unexplained weight gain, swelling and pain in the abdomen, and changes in bowel habit.
22809	Most often Peritonitis manifests mainly with an acute pain of the abdomen, guarding, and tenderness. These symptoms are usually exacerbated by moving the patients peritoneum like when the patient coughs, elicits the Blumberg sign, or flexes his hips. Determining which part of the Peritoneum depends usually whether the peritonitis is also localised like in the case of appendicitis and diverticulitis. It can also be generalised to affect the whole of the abdomen. The pain commonly starts right at the site causing the disease. Peritonitis is also known as an example of an acute abdomen disorder.
22810	Babies with Periventricular leukomalacia usually have no obvious signs or symptoms of the disease, however these babies are at high risk for some disorders involving the motor skills especially the legs, some delays in mental development, problem in the coordination, with impaired vision and hearing skills. Children suffering from this disorder have higher nystagmus levels, optic nerve hypoplasia, strabismus, and refractive error.
22811	There are various symptoms of the disease which may include 'Fog days', pallor, fatigue, shortness of breath, rapid heartbeat, tongue symptoms including sore, red, or burning, digestive disturbances like upset stomach, weight loss, loss of appetite, diarrhea, constipation, abdominal pain, jaundice, fever, malaise, paresthesias, finger paresthesias, tingling or burning fingers, numb fingers, muscle spasms, unsteadiness, movement disorders, weakness, spasticity, personality changes, and chest pain.
22812	Symptoms of Perniosis includes ulceration of the toes, fingers or digits, skin inflammation that are often itchy, skin redness, inflammation of the skin of the toes and fingers, and earlobe inflammation.
22813	The early symptoms of peroneal muscular atrophy are weakness in the lower legs, ankles and feet, hammertoes, gait, frequent tripping or falling, and loss of sensation in the hands and feet, among others. Later symptoms include pain and numbness in the lower legs and feet, weakness in the arms and hands, and decreased sensitivity to heat and cold.
22814	Acute cough as one lasting less than three weeks, sub acute as lasting from three to eight weeks 0and persistent cough as lasting longer than eight weeks. Another possible signs of persistent cough are: Bronchiogenic carcinoma, carcinomatosis, sarcoidosis, left ventricular failure and aspiration. A psychogenic or "habit" cough is rare, and can always be diagnosed by exclusion.
22815	Symptoms of this syndrome includes genitals that arouse for over very long period of time.
22816	Symptoms of Persistent truncus arteriosus often manifests as Cyanosis which presents upon birth, heart failure that occurs within weeks after birth, systolic ejection murmurs heard commonly at left sternal border, widened pressure of pulse, bounding pulses of the arteries, loud second sound of the heart, biventricular hypertrophy, cardiomegaly, elevated pulmonary vascularity, and hypocalcemia.
22817	Pertussis that occurs mostly in infants and some young children initially manifest itself by symptoms of mild respiratory infection like cough, runny nose, and sneezing. After sometime, the somewhat mild cough changes and now has an increased number of coughing which is followed by a "whooping" sound. It may then be follwed with vomiting. Some complications of Pertusis includes pneumonia, pulmonary hypertension, encephalitis, and secondary bacterial superinfection.
22818	The symptoms of this condition are significant loss of previously acquired or learned verbal, social, and motor skills after a certain age, lack of normal function, and repetitive and stereotyped behavioral patterns, among others.
22819	Symptoms of having Pes planus is having completely or almost completely flat sole touching the ground.
22820	Among the most common symptoms of a pet allergy include sneezing, runny nose, nasal congestion, postnasal drip, itchy nose and watery eyes. Pet allergies usually share the same symptoms of an asthma attack and for people with asthma, an allergy further aggravates their condition.
22821	Among the symptoms of this condition are brief and sudden staring without unusual movement, fluttering eyelids, lip smacking, chewing, and hand movements.
22822	Most of the time, the first symptom that manifest in the patients is an obstruction of bowel from an intussusception. This is a telescoping of a loop of the bowel into yet another segment. People often diagnosed with this syndrome is at the age of 23, however the lesions can already be identified and seen by astute pediatrician upon birth. Before reaching the age of puberty, the mucocutaneous lesions manifest itself on the soles or palms of the patient.
22823	Symptoms of patients having Peyronie disease may experience pain, cord-like lesions, hardened or some abnormal curvatures of the penis organ seen when erect. Some symptoms also include the penis becoming narrow and or short. Some patients also experience problems like erectile dysfunction. Sexual intercourse becomes painful and difficult for the patients.
22824	Abnormal facial features may result as symptom to Pfeiffer syndrome. The skull is the affected part impeding normal growth of the head and lead to bulging of some parts of the head and also wide-set eyes. Patients will also have an underdeveloped upper jaw with beaked nose.Hearing loss is also associated with this disorder with some dental problems.
22825	It is a skin infection involving the stratum corneum. The fungus may also grow in the hair shaft in hairy areas. The infection is the presence of single, discrete, well-encapsulated cysts with pus-like fluids and fungus. The whole body may be covered with lesions. Boils or lump are also found. The central area is necrotic and becomes an abscess. Necrotic area is full of puss and may exhibit fungal elements.
22826	The definitive symptom of phantom pain is the feeling of pain, which may be described as shooting , throbbing or burning, from an already inexistent limb because of amputation. The said sensation is usually felt within the first few days of amputation. The person suffering from phantom pain would also be uneasy.
22827	Symptoms includes anxiety and unexplained uneasyness when told to take medications. People with this disorder tend to stay away from being sick because it makes them sick or thinking that they will have to take medication to get well. They will also have an obsessive-compulsive behavior towards him being clean enough and healthy enough not to be sick.
22828	The symptoms of pharyngitis include sore throat, strep throat, headache, fever and colds. There may be instances that the person suffering from pharyngitis experiences difficulty in swallowing and breathing. ------------------------------------------------
22829	Symptoms of phenylketonuria include seizures, hair and skin which are excessively fair, and the baby's sweat and urine having a musty odor in it.
22829	Newborns have no symptoms, but may develop over time. The symptoms include: mental retardation, behavioral or social problems, seizure or tremors, hyperactivity, stunted growth, skin rashes, small head, vomiting, musty odor in the person's breath, skin or urine, fair skin and blue eyes due to the phenylalanine's inability to transform melanine.
22830	Symptoms the disorder pheochromocytoma usually affect those of the sympathetic nervous system making it hyperactive. These may include elevation of the heart rate, high pressure of the blood, orthostatic hypotension, palpitations, anxiety, diaphoresi, headaches, pallor, abrupt lost of weight, and high levels of glucose in the blood.
22831	Patients with dengue fever suffer from high fever, extreme weakness, coughing, and internal bleeding. When not immediately treated, the disease can be fatal.
22832	Foreskin does not retract from the head of the penis when erect. Some urinary obstruction and pain may be observed.
22833	The symptoms of phlebitis include redness, swelling, and tenderness and pain of the area affected, and at times, may be accompanied by fever.
22834	Very commonly, the symptom of phocomelia are undeveloped limbs which includes either the leg or arm. Patients also don't pelvic bones. Phocomelia can also cause other abnormalities because of the absent limbs. These defects may include short arm bones, fingers fused together, and sometimes a missing thumb. Generally, people with phocomelia will also suffer retarded growth and can also be the cause of some mental deficiencies. In severe cases, phocomelia symptoms would include ecephalocele, spinal fluid ccumulation below the skull, bicornate uterus, inefficient blood clotting ability, heart and kidney malformations, short neck, and abnormal urethra.
22835	The syndrome is one of the most frequent of all known genetic traits. It is inherited in an autosomal dominant manner, affecting males and females alike, who have half a chance of passing the achoo gene to each of their children who will have the disorder.
22836	Images that trigger seizures vary from one person to another, however, there is a common warning of an impending attack. Patients sense an odd sensation before seizures, which is a good sign for them to avoid the stimulus. Attacks may be brief to full tonic-clonic ones.
22837	Sensitivity of the skin to a light source can take various forms. People with this particular skin types are more sensitive to sunburn. Particularly medications make the skin more sensitive to sunlight; these include most of the tetracycline antibiotics and the heart drug amiodarone.
22838	Consumption of non-food items repeatedly, despite advices not to do so, for at least one month, is one of the telltale signs of the disorder. Individuals who exhibit such a behavior even if they're older than 18 to 24 months, particularly if eating such types of items, may also have pica.
22839	Patients with Pick disease have a difficulty in speaking and writing. They have mood swings and changes in their personality, particularly exhibiting apathy, severe depression where it has never happened before, impulsive behavior for cautious persons, bad manners, rudeness, saying and doing improper things publicly, aggression, poor judgment, paranoia and selfishness.
22839	Symptoms of the illness include written and spoken aphasia, mood swings, severe depression and personality changes. People with the disease also easily get paranoid and adopt childlike behavior.
22841	The symptoms present in pickwickian syndrome are sleep apnea, hypoxia, hypercapnia, weakness of the muscles and nocturnal ventilation. The main feature of this condition is snoring.
22842	Persons affected with piebaldism have white patches on their forelock and skin on the frontal scalp, among other parts of the body. Usually, surrounding these white patches are narrow borders of hyperpigmented skin.
22843	The main symptoms of this disorder are a small jaw, refracted tongue, and a cleft palate.
22844	With PVNS, the joint suddenly swells and becomes painful. As the disease progresses, motion becomes limited while the pain intensifies. Localized PVNS usually is painless at first building on to the common signs of the disease. Diffuse PVNS may be confused with rheumatoid arthritis. Swelling usually feels warm.
22845	Pilar cysts are found on the patients scalp. The cysts are smooth, and movable under the scalp's skin and come in a number in a specific area. The cysts may also grow quite large and tender. Thes cysts may also rupture causing an intense redness of the scalp, which can be irritated.
22846	Usually, piles, especially those which are internal, exhibit no symptoms. However, there may be severe pain, discomfort, bleeding, swelling and inflammation, and itchiness, in external hemorrhoid.
22847	The telling sign of the disease is the presence of more than a hair in each follicle.
22848	A small lump growing on the tailbone in buttock crease is the first signal of the disease. When this grows larger and inflames, pain will be felt in the tailbone area worsened when pressure is apllied. In the case of pilonidal abscess, the patient will experience pain, redness, localized swelling and fever.
22849	There are no symptoms. The bumps, usually reddish in color, simply materialize on the skin.
22850	Pinched nerve exhibits the following symptoms, to wit: sharp or burning pain, numbness in the affected area, weakness of the muscles in the affected area, and tingling sensations.
22851	Experts believe that pinealomas are caused by the proliferation of the germ cells, astrocytes, or of the pineoblastomas and pineocytomas, or what are known as the primary pineocytes.
22852	Infected individuals initially have a raised papule, after which an eruption of flat, reddened areas, and then a bluish coloration develops subsequently losing pigmentation.
22853	The symptoms of pinworm infection are itching of the anal or vaginal area, irritability, discomfort, insomnia, and undefined gastrointestinal symptoms, among others.
22854	Patients have increased pipecolic acid levels in the blood, which leads to neuropathy and hepatomegaly.
22855	Common symptoms of pituitary cancer include: headaches; vision impairment; visual disturbances; vomiting; and nausea. Usually, pituitary cancer may also show symptoms of secondary hormonal problems, such as: female infertility; loss of menstrual periods; abnormal growth; high blood pressure; heat intolerance; cold intolerance; skin changes; body changes; and Galactorrhea.
22856	The symptoms of pituitary insufficiency include fatigue, weakness, weight loss or gain, decline in appetite, headaches, abdominal discomfort, and low blood pressure, among others. Additional symptoms experienced by a male suffering pituitary insufficiency are erectile dysfunction, loss of interest in sexual activity, and decrease in facial and body hair. A female afflicted with this condition experiences irregularity of menstrual periods and infertility.
22857	Different types of pituitary tumors exhibit varied symptoms. For instance, growth hormone-producing tumors produce the following symptoms: enlarged hands and feet, heart problems, and high blood pressure, among others. The other generic symptoms of pituitary tumors include, among others, seizures, headache, hair loss, fatigue, irritability, nausea, low blood pressure, and unexplained weight loss or gain.
22858	Pityriasis Alba symptoms include patches on the cheeks, on the chin and around the mouth, on the forehead, neck, shoulders, on the upper chest and arms. It also appears as some hypopigmented patches with sizes from 1-4 cm. with slight and subtle surfaces. The patches also starts as itchy and pink in color which then develops to light patches of the skin.
22861	The symptoms of this condition include: Large patches of pink or red, flaky, oval-shaped rash on the torso, similar to ringworm, psoriasis or discoid eczema; A single, large red "herald" patch may occur 1 to 20 days before smaller, more numerous patches of rash; The "herald" patch may be preceded by a sore throat of varying severity. The more numerous oval patches generally spread widely across the chest, often following the rib-line.
22862	Patients experience reddish-orange patches on the skin, severe flaking, itching, thickened skin on the feet and hands, and thickened bumps around hair follicles. Other patients have swelling legs, feet, and other body parts. The disease has various progressions and rates of improvement.
22863	The symptoms of pityriasis versicolor are small, scaly, discolored patches on the skin, and mild itching on the affected area.
22864	The main symptom of placenta previa is painless, bright red vaginal bleeding usually occurring in the latter trimester of the pregnancy. There are instances when women with this condition experiences contractions with bleeding.
22865	Pregnant mothers experience nonstop contractions, pain in the uterus, tenderness in the abdomen, or sometimes bleeding of the vagina.
22866	Here are three types of plague: bubonic, septicemic and pneumonic. Signs and symptoms of plague may vary depending on the type and on how you contract it. It is possible to develop more than one type of plague.
22867	Plantar fasciitis usually develops gradually, but it can come on suddenly and be severe. And however it can affect both feet, it more often occurs in only one foot at a time. You have to watch for: Sharp pain in the inside part of the bottom of your heel; Heel pain that tends to be worse with the first few steps after awakening; Heel pain after long periods of standing or after getting up from a seated position.
22868	Plantar warts may appear on the soles of the feet, as hard and flat growths; small and grainy bumps; or grayish or brownish lumps
22870	The symptoms include: coughing, chest pains, wheezing, shortness of breath, fluid in the lungs known as pleural effusion, hoarseness of difficulty speaking, and occasionally, blood clots. Loss of appetite and weight loss are also observed.
22871	Patients may have decreased movement of the chest on the affected side as well as diminished breath sounds. They may also feel dullness to percussion over the fluid, decreased vocal fremitus and resonance, pleural friction rub, and egophony.
22872	The symptoms of pleural mesothelioma include: painful breathing, shortness of breath, chest pain, dry cough, peculiar lumps of tissue under the skin on the chest, and unexplained weight loss.
22873	The inflammation of the pleura may cause the following symptoms: sharp pain in the chest during breathing, shortness of breath, fever and chills, and dry cough.
22874	Patients may have cough, chills, weight loss, chest pain, shortness of breath, rapid shallow breath, loss of appetite, itching near the site of the lungs, and dizziness.
22875	A classic sign of Plica syndrome is pain radiating from the knees. In addition, the patient may also experience difficulty bending knees and may feel a snapping or popping sensation. Knees may be unstable at times. Knees may also become swollen.
22876	Patients suffer from a burning sensation of the tongue and oral mucosa, and atrophy of lingual papillae that produces a smooth, shiny red tongue dorsum. They also have swallowing difficulty.
22878	Affected individuals may have fever, non-productive cough, shortness of breath, weight loss, and night sweats. If there is no other bacterial infection, the patient does not discharge large amounts of sputum.
22879	Affected individuals may have fever, non-productive cough, shortness of breath, weight loss, and night sweats. If there is no other bacterial infection, the patient does not discharge large amounts of sputum.
22880	Patients may experience breathing difficulty, cough, fever, and nighttime sweating. Acute eosinophilic pneumonia worsens rapidly; the chronic type develops slowly. Patients are usually diagnosed with asthma before their true condition is recognized.
22881	Symptoms of the disease are the same with those of the common cold excluding those affecting the nose and head. These symptoms may be rapid breathing, severe coughing, or a hoarse throat. Patients may also loss their appetite, experience chest pain and may be more susceptible to tuberculosis.
22882	Pneumothorax patients may experience mild to severe chest pain and shortness of breath. The serious type may impair heart function, which could lead a fatal drop in blood pressure.
22883	Patients with POEMS syndrome have polyneuropathy, which may be painful and requires analgesia. Patients may feel an abnormal and reduced sensation and decreased power in the legs and arms. They may also have Organomegaly, Endocrinopathy/Edema, M-protein and Skin abnormalities.
22884	People affected by the disease suffer from red patches on the skin and dilation of the blood vessels. Depigmentation of the skin color also occurs. Craniofacial deformities also arise as the affected infant grows, and bone defects characterized by underdeveloped hands and feet are observed.
22885	Poikiloderma of Civatte shows manifests a specific pattern of change in skin color in the neck and at times also affecting the center of the chest.
22886	The symptoms of a poison ivy rash include redness, swelling, blisters and itching.
22887	Some symptoms may include an abnormal gastrointestinal tract, absence of pectoral muscles, syndactyly of fingers, or an abnormal rib. Affected individuals usually do not have nipples. The malformations usually appear on the right side of the body. Males are often affected than females.
22888	Symptoms of poliomyelitis depend on the condition's degree of severity. Although majority of infected individuals do not exhibit symptoms, common symptoms include fever of up to 103░F or 39.5░C, decreased in appetite, nausea or vomiting, sore throat, or constipation. These symptoms may worsen depending on the severity of the condition.
22889	Itching, swelling and mucus production. Patiens suffering from pollen allergy may have varying experiences. Patients should also be aware of the side-effects caused by the allergy medications.
22890	Symptoms of the disease are the results of the damage to affected organs such as the skin, heart, kidneys, and nervous system. Common symptoms include aches in the muscles and joints, skin rashes, weight loss, fever, or fatigue.
22891	Polyarthritis can occur in any age group and gender. Patients over 60 years old may suddenly experience polyarthritis. They typically feel pain and swelling of the wrists aw well as stiff and restricted shoulder joints.
22892	All of a patient's cartilage areas may be affected. Many cases shows the effect of the disease in several areas where cartilage is found, while other areas are healthy. Examples of cartilaginous parts that may be affected include the ears, nose, throat, heart valves, and all areas in which cartilage connects musculo-skeletal tissues.
22893	Patients may have symptoms like high blood pressure, back or side pain due to enlarged kidneys, abdominal pain, increased abdomen size, blood in urine, frequent urination, and kidney stones, kidney failure, or kidney infections. It may also lead to total loss of kidney function also known as end stage renal disease.
22894	Patients may have weight problems, irregular ovulation or menstruation, and excessive amounts of androgenic hormones.
22895	Patients with this disorder may experience any or a combination of the following symptoms: headaches, vertigo, and an abnormally enlarged spleen and/or liver. Some patients may also have high blood pressure or form blood clots.
22896	Patients may experience itching after being exposed to warm water. Others may have gouty arthritis or peptic ulcer disease. In rare cases, patients may suddenly feel a severe burning of hands and feet, which turns the skin into reddish or bluish in color. This symptom is called erythromelalgia. Patients are also prone to blood clots.
22897	Individuals have extra fingers or toes.
22898	Type I: this disorder is an adrenal insufficiency and usually occurs in children. Patients who experience this disorder may also go through under-active parathyroid glands, slow sexual development, pernicious anemia, chronic candida infections, chronic active hepatitis, and, very rarely, hair loss. Type II: also called the Schmidt's syndrome, this disorder troubles young adults. The symptoms may include: an underactive thyroid gland, slow sexual development, diabetes, vitiligo, and pigment loss on areas of the skin.
22899	Polymorphous light eruption symptoms include a red rash that develops after exposure to ultraviolet (UV) radiation. UV radiation is found in sunlight and commercial tanning lamps and also tanning beds.
22901	Individuals may suddenly experience moderate to severe aching and stiffness in the muscles of the hips, thighs, shoulders, upper arms, and neck. They may also feel fatigue, anemia, or unintentional weight loss. Others may also feel the symptoms gradually.
22902	Patients gradually or rapidly feel a weakness in their muscles such as difficulty standing up from chairs, climbing stairs, or lifting things above the shoulders. They may also have swallowing difficulty. Others feel fatigue, lose weight, or have low-grade fever. The skin rashes or discoloration may also occur.
22903	Symptoms of polyneuritis vary from patient to patient, they may include paresthesias,numbness, pain, or tingling of the limbs, hands, and feet. Patients may also have abnormal gait, drooped wrists, and experience difficulty in breathing. However, only physicians can appropriately diagnose whether the symptoms are symptoms of Polyneuritis.
22904	Patients have bone fracture and deformed legs, arms, and skin. They also have abnormal skin pigmentation and reaches puberty prematurely with rapid growth rate.
22905	Affected individuals have multiple harmartomas associated with melanin spots on the lips, buccal mucosa, and fingers. Oral pigmentation first appears and often found on the gingiva, hard palate, and inside the cheek.
22906	Small polyps usually don't cause any symptoms. But larger polyps may exhibit the following symptoms, abdominal pain, nausea or vomiting, and bleeding.
22907	The symptoms of uterine polyps include irregular menstrual period, excessively heavy menstrual period, bleeding between menstrual periods, infertility, and bleeding even after menopause.
22908	Due to glycogen build-up, the patient feels a weakness in the muscles throughout the body affecting other body tissues, specifically the heart muscles, skeletal muscles, liver and nervous system.
22909	Pompholyx is manifested by small bumps that gradually become a rash made up of vesicles. The other symptoms of this condition are itching, pain, and fissures on the fingers or toes.
22910	Symptoms include fever, muscle aches and can cause other lung type symptoms like cough, runny nose and sore throat.
22911	Pontiac fever usually presents with the following flu-like symptoms: shivers, myalgia, muscle aches, and fever, possibly joined by other minor symptoms within 3-8 days after infection. Although Pontiac fever does not generally cause pneumonia, it can produce other lung-type disturbances such as a runny nose, a cough, and a sore throat.
22912	The only symptom of this condition is the inability to distinguish among certain shades of color.
22913	Among the symptoms of popliteal cyst are pain in the knee, swelling behind the knee and in the leg, and stiffness. In some cases however, popliteal cyst causes no pain.
22914	Affected individuals show varied physical anomalies in the limbs, face, or genitals such as webbings behind the knee down to the heel, malformed toenails, and webbed toes, cleft palate, or malformation of the scrotum.
22915	Affected individuals have facial clefts, filiform bands, ankyloblepharon, syndactyly, and other ectodermal and nonectodermal abnormalities.
22916	Infants severely affected show symptoms immediately after birth and are often diagnosed before age 1. The infants may have delayed growth and development, slight or incomplete paralysis, decreased muscle tone, seizures, and macrocephaly or microcephaly. Others may be mentally retarded or die before the age 20. Some patients have minor neurological problems and normal intelligence.
22917	Porphyria manifests with either skin problems or neurological complications, or a combination of both. Individuals with porphyria affecting the skin have blisters, itching, and skin swelling when the skin is exposed to sunlight. Those with porphyrias affecting the nervous system feel intermittent pain in the chest, abdomen, limbs, or back; muscle numbness, tingling, paralysis, or cramping; vomiting; constipation; and personality changes or mental disorders.
22918	The symptoms of PCT include photosensitivity of the skin that results in blisters and erosions. People with the sporadic type of PCT experience liver problems such as hepatic fibrosis, cirrhosis and inflammation. Other symptoms of PCT include hyperpigmentation and hypertrichosis.
22919	Individuals with PCT have photosensitive skin that results in blisters or erosions in areas of the skin that are exposed. Othes symptoms include hyperpigmentation and hypertrichosis.
22920	Symptoms of TYPE I PCT include blistering and erosion of the exposed areas of the skin as well as hyperpigmentation and hypertrichosis. Chronic liver problems such as hepatic fibrosis, cirrhosis and inflammation are also common among sufferers of TYPE I PCT.
22921	Patients with AIP experience "attacks" characterized by severe nausea, chronic pain and seizures. AIP attacks are often induced by one or a combination of the "four Ms," namely, menstruation, medication, malnutrition and maladies. AIP patients who experience frequent attacks often develop neurophatic pain in their extremities and in their gut. Most AIP also suffer from depression as caused by offending symptoms. Persons with AIP often have reddish urine during attacks. They may also turn purple when exposed to ultraviolet light for an extended period of time. Other symptoms include constipation, abdominal pain and muscle weakness.
22922	The symptoms of portal hypertension include ascites (free fluid in the peritoneal cavity, elevated risk of spontaneous bacterial peritonitis, elevated risk of hepatorenal syndrome, hepatic encephalopathy, splenomegaly (enlargement of the spleen) and portacaval anastomoses. The symptoms of portal hypertension results from the blood being forced down alternate channels due to increases resistance to flow through the portal system.
22924	Individuals suffering from PPS experiences increased muscle weakness, fatigue and muscle pain. Memory problems and other cognitive difficulties are experienced by some PPS sufferers. Weight gain is also a common symptom but it may be due to the decreased level of physical activity of most patients because of fatigue. These symptoms typically appear 20-40 years after the original attack of the viral infection, between the age of 35 to 60.
22926	Post-concussion symptoms include dizziness, tension headaches, irritability, fatigue, loss of concentration and memory, insomnia, and noise and light sensitivity.
22927	Several symptoms that include: swallowing constantly, spitting mucus constantly, tickling in the throat, mucus feeling in the back of the throat, constant clearing of throat, difficulty breathing, congestion in the nasal and sinus passages, chronic sore throat, crystals found in the tonsils (called tonsil stones or tonsilloliths), bad breath, coughing, nausea and vomiting due to excess mucus in the stomach, cobblestone appearance of oropharyngeal mucosa.
22928	Among the symptoms of post-polio syndrome are as follows: muscle and joint pain, new muscle weakness in limbs originally affected by the initial illness, or in limbs that did not seem to have been originally affected, fatigue and exhaustion with minimal activity, decreased tolerance of cold temperatures, and sleep-related breathing disorders.
22929	Persons suffering from PTE suffers from either general or partial seizures. Symptoms may appear a short time after the injury or after several years. General seizures are often experienced immediately after the trauma while partial seizures occur after some time from the occurrence of the injury.
22930	Persons who are suffering from post-Vietnam syndrome easily succumb to depression, anxiety disorders and hallucinations. Soldiers who served during the Vietnam War are mostly the ones affected by the syndrome.
22931	Patients with Posterior urethral valves may experience incontinence, urinary tract infection, renal failure and vesicoureteral reflux.
22932	The symptoms of posterior uveitis include redness of the eye, blurred vision, light sensitivity, dark, floating spots along the visual field and eye pain.
22933	Symptoms of postpartum depression may involve any of the following symptoms - sad mood, lack of interest in pleasurable activities, weight loss, sleep problems, loss of energy, anxiety, agitation, feelings of guilt, suicidal thoughts, feelings of rejection and decreased interest in sex. Other symptoms may occur in a more severe case of postpartum depression, called postpartum psychosis.
22934	The most common symptoms include: uncontrolled bleeding, decreased blood pressure, increased heart rate, decrease in the red blood cell count, swelling and pain in tissues in the vaginal and perineal area
22935	Symptoms of postpartum psychosis include all signs of postpartum depression, including anxiety, irritability, sadness and crying, headaches, exhaustion and a sense of inadequacy. Most of these symptoms may last only for several days or a few weeks. Many women experiencing baby blues may suffer from such symptoms, but when these symptoms last, it could turn into depression and eventually postpartum psychosis. Longer-lasting symptoms include constant fatigue, insomnia, severe mood swings, lack (or excessive) concern for self and baby, less interest in sex, impaired thinking, emotional numbness, lack of joy and withdrawal from family or friends. Patients with severe cases of postpartum depression may experience paranoia, hallucinations, delusions, confusion, disorientation and fear of harming the baby.
22936	Symptoms of postural hypotension include include dizziness, lightheadedness, headache, blurred or dimmed vision, generalized numbness/tingling of the extremities and fainting. These symptoms occur while the patient is standing.
22937	The most obvious cause of hypokalemia may be insufficient consumption of potassium as a result of a low potassium diet. This is however a rare cause of hypokalemia. A more common cause is heavy loss of potassium due to heavy fluid loss. Individuals may lose potassium during vomiting, excessive perspiration, diarrhea or during surgical procedures. Some medicines such as diuretics and laxatives may also lead to heavy potassium loss. Diabetic ketoacidosis can also cause potassium loss though rarely. Other cause of hypokalemia are: hypomagnesia, high aldosterone levels resulting from certain diseases, congenital defects of the salt transporters to the kidneys, congenital defects of transporters and channels of ion in the muscles,
22938	Apart from the missing kidneys, infants with Potter's syndrome display other features such as the absence of the ureters, large, wide-set eyes, a flattened nose, low set ears and deformed genitalia.
22940	Unborn babies with PWS show the following signs: reduced fetal movement and frequent abnormal fetal position. At birth, the babies will show signs of lethargy, hypotonia, feeding difficulties, difficulties establishing respiration, hypogonadism. During infancy, PWS sufferers will continue experiencing feeding difficulties, intellectual delay, excessive sleeping and scoliosis. At childhood he will experience speech delay, poor physical coordination, hyperphagia (over-eating) which will result in excessive weight gain. During adolescence he will experience delayed puberty, short stature, obesity, extremely flexibility. In adulthood he we will show signs of hypogonadism, sparse pubic hair, obesity, hypotonia, learning disabilities/borderline intellectual functioning, proneness to diabetes mellitus and extreme flexibility. Generally, PWS sufferers have prominent nasal bridge, small hands and feet, soft skin, excess fat, high, narrow forehead, almond shaped eyes with thin, down-turned lips, light skin and hair relative to other family members
22941	The loss of hearing typically occurs gradually over time and usually starts with experiencing problem like hearing high-frequency sounds or when someone is talking. The person may also experience difficulty in hearing things in noisy areas.
22942	Signs of puberty such as having pubic hair, breast and development of genitals.
22943	Apart from elevated high blood pressure, other symptoms of preeclampsia include general damage to the maternal endothelium, liver and kidneys because of the release of vasorepressive factors.
22944	Apart from elevated high blood pressure, other symptoms of Pregnancy toxemia /hypertension include general damage to the maternal endothelium, liver and kidneys because of the release of vasorepressive factors.
22945	Appearance of signs of aging before old age. These include, having wrinkles, falling hair, etc.
22946	Women with POF suffer from infertility and decreased bone density or osteoporosis. Other health implications include increased risk of heart disease, hypothyroidism, Addison's disease and other autoimmune disorders.
22947	Persons with premature ventricular contractions usually do not feel any symptoms. But they may feel fluttering, flip-flops, and pounding of the chest. They also feel skipped heartbeats.
22948	Symptoms are similar to premenstrual syndrome - depression, anxiety, irritability, tension, and short-tempered. The difference lies in the fact that symptoms of premenstrual dysphoric disorder are more severe when manifested causing an upsetting and distracting consequence on an affected woman's life.
22949	The symptoms usually happen two weeks before menstrual period. Symptoms may disappear when menstrual flow occurs but it may also persist even after the flow started. The three major symptoms are: - Irritability - Tension - Dysphoria Other known symptoms: ò Swelling/bloating of the abdomen ò Constipation and probable hemorrhoids because of water retention ò Pain in the abdomen ò Softness of the breasts ò Breasts irritation/itching ò Stress
22950	People suffering from presbycusis have difficulty understanding words especially if there are background noises and have the tendency to ask people to repeat saying what has been said and request others to speak slowly and more clearly. Because they are incapable to hear uttered words clearly, there are times when volume of radio and television are volume up. They may avoid being in social gatherings and tend to withdraw from conversations easily.
22951	An individual has presbyopia when he or she finds prints to be unclear even at a normal reading distance. He or she may suffer from eyestrain or headaches due to prolonged reading or close work.
22952	Prolonged erection Painful erection
22953	Affected individuals may have superficial blisters or deep, red lumps, others may feel an intense itch or prick. The condition develops in skin folds of adults due to clothing friction while it usually appears on the head, neck, shoulders, chest and back, armpits, and groin in infants.
22954	People with this syndrome usually experiences shortness of breath especially during exertion. Other symptoms may also be present including breathing difficulty even when at rest, cough that is non-productive, lethargy, sleeping disturbances, awakening from sleep irritated, and intermittent fever.
22955	The solitary symptom suggesting primary amenorrhea is absence of menstrual period of a woman reaching the age of 16 and beyond despite undergoing normal changes occurring during puberty; though amenorrhea may present with or without these changes.
22956	Energy levels are low especially during the later part of the day and onwards; often progresses even after resting. Bothersome itching in the legs, back, and arms that often gets worse at night resulting to sleep disturbances, worsening fatigue and increased tendency to develop depression; dry eyes and mouth are often observed resulting to swallowing difficulties, sensitivity to light, and corneal ulcers. Later stage symptoms include jaundice or yellowing of the skin, hyperpigmentation, swollen feet and abdomen, intestinal problems such as diarrhea and oily stool, and urinary tract infections.
22957	Due to impaired function of the cilia, infections like sinusitis, pneumonia, otitis media, and bronchitis are oftentimes manifested by individuals with primary ciliary dyskinesia. Hearing loss and poor sense of smell combines high mucus produced in the sinuses. Infertility is another symptom due to impaired ciliary function in the fallopian tube of an affected woman. Chronic headache, speech defects, low weight and difficulty in breathing are common symptoms of the disease. In some rare cases, hydrocephalus or buildup or spinal fluid in the brain may indicate primary ciliary dyskinesia.
22958	Primary hyperoxaluria is a rare condition marked by overproduction of the substance oxalate also known as oxalic acid. Extreme oxalate deposits can combine with calcium and forms calcium oxalate leading to kidney damage or failure and injury to other organs in the body. There are two types of primary hyperoxaluria; type 1 primary hyperoxaluria and type 2 primary hyperoxaluria. The first one lacks the liver enzyme alanine-glyoxylate aminotransferase while the second type lacks the enzyme glyoxylate reductase/hydroxypyruvate reductase.
22959	Symptoms of primary hyperparathyroidism are usually those present in hypercalcemic patients including kidney stones that can result to renal failure. Bone-related complications manifested by pain and usually pathological fractures are also symptoms of the disorder. Other symptoms include gastrointestinal symptoms such as indigestion, constipation, nausea, and vomiting. Peptic ulcers and pancreatitis may also develop due to hypercalcemia. The central nervous system may also exhibit symptoms such as fatigue, depression, lethargy, psychosis, delirium, memory loss, and coma. Proximal muscle weakness and itching may also be present.
22960	Signs and symptoms of the condition vary from person to person. Commonly, affected individuals suffer from frequent infections that are harder to treat and may be longer lasting. Some of these infection may not normally infect persons with healthy immune systems. Examples of these infections include frequent and recurrent ear; infections of the sinus and skin as well as blood infections; pneumonia; bronchitis; and meningitis. Other individuals suffer from inflamed and infected internal organs such as the liver; rheumatic disorders, blood disorders; thyroid disease; digestive problems; and delayed growth and development.
22961	Symptoms suggesting primary lateral sclerosis include difficulty in maintaining balance leading to clumsiness due to stiffness or weakness in the legs, sudden and uncontrolled muscle spasm and twinges in the extremities, and foot dragging. Speech difficulties may also occur when the facial muscles are involved.
22962	Estrogen deficiency typical show through irregular or skipped periods, hot flashes or night sweats, vaginal dryness, or irritability or difficulty concentrating. Irregular menstruation periods experienced by some women ma y be erratic, after pregnancy, or after the discontinuation of their birth control pills.
22963	Patients may experience itching after being exposed to warm water. Others may have gouty arthritis or peptic ulcer disease. In rare cases, patients may suddenly feel a severe burning of hands and feet, which turns the skin into reddish or bluish in color. This symptom is called erythromelalgia.
22964	A person suffering from primary progressive aphasia usually suffers difficulty in finding the appropriate words to use when speaking or writing that usually worsens with time. Inability to understand written and spoken language can cause them to be mute. In the long-term other mental skills will also diminish and lead them to function only with the assistance of another individual to work on everyday personal care.
22965	The symptoms of primary pulmonary hypertension include shortness of breath especially during exertion, extreme fatigue, weakness, dizziness or fainting, swollen ankles, cyanosis (bluish skin and lips), and chest pain.
22966	Primary sclerosing cholangitis produces symptoms that are associated with itching, fatigue, abdominal pain, and yellowing of the skin and eyes (jaundice). Chills and fever is commonly present when infection has occurred. There are also cases when primary sclerosing cholangitis produces no symptoms and are only discovered due to abnormally elevated alkaline phosphatase levels (a liver enzyme) during a routine physical examination.
22968	Chest pain episodes are usually prominent at rest rather than when engage in activity. Other possible symptoms that come with the syndrome include upper arm pain, shortness of breath, tight chest, and jaw pain. Heart palpitations are present in some cases.
22969	Affected individuals are incapable of automatically responding to certain sensory information. Their responses to certain information are usually extreme and inappropriate. This is the result of the patient's brain poorly processing sensory messages causing inefficient motor, language, or emotional output.
22970	Proconvertin deficiency, congenital can sometimes be asymptomatic. In other cases, symptoms may present including excessive bleeding in different conditions such as after injury or after tooth extraction. Individuals with proconvertin deficiency, congenital usually experience excessive menstrual bleeding and spontaneous nose bleeding. They tend to get bruises easily and bleeding into joints is common. Internal bleeding may occur in the head, stomach, urinary tract, and intestines.
22971	Severe stabbing-like pain in the rectum. May pass quickly or last much longer. Pain may awaken the patient as it usually happens at night. It is sometimes described as an "anal charlie horse". The pain is a repeated spasms of the anus, an anal cramp, or an anal spasm. Pain may also occur when moving around, moving bowels or passing gas.
22972	Individuals suffering from proctitis usually experience frequent or unremitting urge to defecate. Passing mucus or bleeding in the rectum is also present. Pain is felt on the lower left section of the abdomen and in the anal and rectal area. A feeling of fullness is often felt on the rectum. Frequent diarrhea with a small amount being excreted is often experienced in combination with pain during bowel movements.
22973	Progeria also known as Hutchison-Gilford progeria is a rare progressive genetic disorder causing children to age rapidly usually starting in the first two years of life.
22975	Individuals suffering from progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy are subjected to experience problems related to vision particularly blindness in half of the visual field of both eyes. Other symptoms that may occur include severe weakness, paralysis on one side of the body, and speech or language difficulty. Less than half of individuals with progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy may encounter and deal with mental impairment.
22976	Weakness and wasting of voluntary muscles is more severe in the legs compared to the arms. Because of the atrophied muscles in the parts closest to the body, there is great difficulty experienced in walking, crawling, swallowing. There is also difficulty in controlling the head and neck. Babies suffering for progressive spinal muscular atrophy will have trouble in lifting the head, delayed or lack in normal development in combination with problems in swallowing, breathing, and eating. Due to non-activity muscles are expected to shrink in size causing more difficulty.
22977	Individuals with progressive Supranuclear palsy experiences loss of balance when walking; likely to fall backward even on the early stages of the disorder. They tend to experience difficulty in focusing the eyes resulting to poor eye contact and blank stare. Other symptoms manifested may include speech and swallowing incapacities, loss of interest in enjoyable activities, stiffness, gets irritated easily, anxiety, tendency to forget easily, and unexplainable crying and laughing episodes.
22978	Because the sex hormomes are affected. There are different symptoms for males and females. In males: erectile dysfunction, uncommonly enlarged breasts. In females: irregular or lack of menstrual periods, milky discharge from the breasts when not pregnant or breast-feeding, painful intercourse due to vaginal dryness, low bone density. In both: reduced hormone production by the pituitary gland as a result of tumor pressure, loss of interest in sexual activity, headaches, visual disturbances, infertility.
22979	Mild conditions may not have noticeable symptoms. But they may present through a feeling of fullness or pressure in the pelvis and vagina, recurrent bladder infections, and pain or urinary leakage during sexual intercourse. Some individuals experience an increased discomfort when straining, coughing, and bearing down or lifting . In severe cases, a bulge of tissue protrudes through the vaginal opening but usually disappears when the patient lies down. In other severe cases, the patient may be unable control urination.
22980	A mild condition does not show signs and symptoms. Otherwise, a patient experiences a sensation of heaviness or pulling in the pelvis, a protrusion of tissue from the vagina, urinary difficulties, bowel movement difficulty, or low back pain. The patient may also feel as if something may fall out of her vagina and other symptoms that worsen as the day progresses.
22981	The hallmarks of prolidase deficiency are the characteristic facial features including drooping upper eyelid, saddle nose, and bulging eyes; and severe and recurring skin ulcers mostly located on the face, lower legs, palms, and soles of the feet. Psychomotor retardation may also occur as well as recurring and persistent infections.
22984	Difficulty in recognizing familiar faces Difficulty in following movie plots where in they cannot keep track of the identity of the characters Patients rely on non-facial information such as hair, clothe for recognition
22985	Sometimes symptoms of prostate cancer do not occur in its early stage though when symptoms occur it is usually similar to those diseases like benign prostatic hypertrophy. Such symptoms are as follows: Difficulty in urinating Erectile dysfunction Frequent urination Difficulty in starting and maintaining a steady flow of urine Blood in the urine Painful Urination
22986	Early symptom experienced by patients with prostate cancer, familial is similar to any type of prostate cancer. Urinary problems are the initial presentation of prostate cancer such as difficulty in urinating, disrupted urination pattern, and diminished intensity in the flow of urine. Presentation of blood in the urine or the semen is often observed if cancer has spread to the prostate and area near the prostate gland. Swollen legs and discomfort felt in the pelvic area is an indication that cancer has spread into the lymph nodes in the pelvis.
22987	Prostate gland enlargement does not usually pose a problem. However, some individuals may experience certain signs and symptoms such as a weak urine stream, difficulty starting a urination, inability to to completely empty the bladder, urinary tract infection, and flood in the urine.
22988	The symptoms of the disease include swelling and irritability of the prostate gland. Urinal problems resulting to infections are also likely to occur.
22989	Symptoms of prostatitis may vary depending on the type of prostatitis. Common symptoms include flu-like symptoms, pain in the prostate gland; groin or lower back; urinary problems such as pain when urinating, blood-tinged urine; and pain during ejaculation.
22990	Patients with this disorder have difficulties in distinguishing between blue and green colors as well as between red and green colors. When comparing the two spectrums you can see that there are different colors and shades of colors that are hard to distinguish for a protanopic person. So those persons are not only blind on red and green colors but also a lot more.
22991	Protein C deficiency in itself does not produce any symptom; however this deficiency can lead to the development of severe conditions including pulmonary embolism, deep vein thrombosis, neonatal purpura fulminans, thrombophlebitis, warfarin-induced skin necrosis, and cirrhosis. The abovementioned conditions are responsible for the following symptoms: pain, swelling, tenderness, skin discoloration and ulceration are possible when deep vein thrombosis has developed; pulmonary embolism will produce symptoms such as shortness of breath, chest pain, slight fever, rapid pulse, and coughing.
22992	Individuals with protein S deficiency manifest symptoms such as cardinal signs of inflammation including pain, tenderness, swelling, and warmth in the affected limb usually on one leg alone.
22993	Individuals with protein-energy malnutrition may lose about 10% to 20% of body weight without trying leading to deteriorated grip and lack of ability to carry out tasks that require high energy. In some severe cases symptoms may include low blood pressure and body temperature; aged-looking skin; hair that is dry, brittle, and thin; skin ulcerations, and lethargy.
22994	Because of the very high amount of albumin present in the urine, the urine may look foamy. Patients will also have swelling in the hands, face, feet, or the abdomen.
22995	Individuals suffering from proteus syndrome experience a vast majority of signs and symptoms ranging from mild to severe with the most common including: gigantism which is characterized with extreme growth of the hand, fingers, toes or feet; asymmetrical growth of limbs, body or face; overgrowth of the connective tissue on the palms of the hand or soles of the feet; darkened, elevated patches of skin; benign tumors on the skin and under the skin; extremely large and lop-sided head; and non-cancerous bony growths shooting outward from the end of bones. Other symptoms include enlargement of the spleen and spinal curvature. Characteristic facial features of an individual with proteus syndrome include: depressed nasal bridge, long and narrow face, down-slanting eyes, nostrils that are upturned, and constantly open mouth when at rest.
22996	The disease is less common than myotonic dystrophy, however it also exhibits relatively the same symptoms. Proximal myotonic mycopathy exhibits extreme muscle weakness, lethargy, heart abnormalities and clouding of the lens of the eye.
22997	Among the symptoms of the prune belly syndrome are the partial or complete absence of abdominal muscles. Wrinkled skin may cover the abdomen. Males acquire undescended testicles, and the urinary tract may have extra large ureter, a distended bladder, and the urine may flow from the bladder back to the ureters and kidneys.
22998	The lesions and nodules are usually symmetric, purpuric and firm. They appear in any part of the body, but most of them are prevalent on the limbs.
22999	A person with the condition feels an irritating sensation to scratch. It may also be associated with redness; bumps; spots or blisters; dry, cracked skin; and leathery or scaly texture of the skin. The condition may last for long periods and may become very intense.
23000	Individuals suffer from burning sensation and soreness or pain in and around the anus. Some individuals cannot resist the urge to scratch the area due to intense irritation.
23001	As pseudochondroplasia develops, lumbar lordosis and rhizomelic shortening of the arms and legs become more evident. Patients with the disorder also suffer from osteoarthritis.
23003	Skin in the shaved are looks red and itchy and it can also look like pimples. If this is left untreated it can cause keloid scarring in the beard area. Rash can also appear.
23004	Patients with the disease usually experience inflammation of one or more joints. They may also undergo other problems such as hemochromatosis, hypophosphatemia, hyperparathyroidism and renal osteodystrophy. White blood cells also increase.
23007	Among the symptoms of pseudohypoparathyrodism are an elevated parathyroid hormone, hyperphosophatemia and hypocalcemia.
23008	Affected individuals may have constant diarrhea, abdominal pain, and blood or pus in their stool. They may also have fever, which may be higher than 101 Farenheit.
23009	Among the symptoms of P. stutzeri infections are fever, shaking, chills, vomiting and nausea. Infections may vary depending on the patient, but the most common area affected by the bacterium is the hipbone.
23010	Among the symptoms of pseudomotor cerebri are severe headache, brief blindness, and dimmed vision. The symptoms may get worse during physical activity. Vomiting and nausea may also occur.
23011	Among the symptoms that indicate the development of the tumor are abdominal and pelvic pain, rapid weight change, bloating, digestive problems, and infertility.
23012	Patients with pseudopapilledema do not experience visual symptoms. It can be unilateral or bilateral, but the disease can be easily detected during an ophthalmoscopic examination.
23013	PPSH is usually represented by a phallus in between the clitoris and the penis, a urethral opening on the perineum, and a partially closed urogenital opening. In most cases internal female reproductive structures are not present.
23014	Patients of the disease experience no symptoms, but once the disease has develop lesions become prominent in different areas of the skin, eyes and blood vessels affecting the urinary tract, pulmonary tissue and the heart.
23015	Persons infected with psittacosis often exhibit fever, chills, vomiting, diarrhea and unusual tolerance to light. They also experience respiratory problems since the disease can be acquired through inhaling the organism that thrives in the bird stool and urine.
23016	The most common symptoms of psoriasis are red sores in different parts of the skin. It can also develop in the scalp. These sores can eventually be very discomforting.
23017	Main symptoms that occur during the onset of the disease are aching and stiffness of the joints. Severe cases may lead to bone deconstruction and calcification. Nails are also affected by the disease.
23018	Symptoms of psoriatic rheumatism include pain and stiffness of the hipbone and other areas of the pelvic cavity. Kneecaps and other joints also become stiff and difficult to move.
23019	The disorder is presented when a patient abnormally drinks excessive amounts of water in big amounts without showing thirst or the need to drink. Weight gain will also be evident due to too fluid overload in the kidneys.
23021	Patients with psychosis seem to experience disorganized thoughts, mood swings, distrust to other people in their environment, perceive to be hearing voices and faces only they can see, and act differently than they usually do.
23022	Symptoms of the disease include itchy eyes, persistent redness and foreign body sensation. Severe stages of pterygium can cause astigmatism and scarring in the cornea.
23023	Symptoms of food poisoning differ depending on what type of bacteria is causing the food poisoning. However, the following are usually involved: nausea, vomiting and/or diarrhea. Some food-borne toxins can also affect the nervous system.
23024	The most common symptom of ptosis is drooping or falling eyelids. In the long run ptosis can cause eye damage since it obstructs the eye's vision and degenerates the function of the unaffected eye due to overwork. Children with congenital ptosis tend to tilt their heads to lift their eyelids.
23025	The main symptom of this condition is the presence of lice on the pubic areas of a person. Itchiness and scratch wounds are likely to occur eventually.
23026	Symptoms of pubic lice are not really evident, but the lice can be seen by the naked eye. The affected area may start to itch when bitten by the lice, which may lead to sores or even infections.
23027	The main symptoms of puerperal fever include fever, abdominal pain, flu-like symptoms, profuse vaginal bleeding, and foul-smelling vaginal discharge.
23028	Among the symptoms of pulmonary alveolar proteinosis are shortness of breath, coughing, weight loss and low grade fever.
23029	Initial symptoms of pulmonary anthrax may resemble a common cold. It may also show sore throat, mild fever, muscle ache and malaise. After several days, the symptoms may progress to severe breathing problems and shock with meningitis developing. Some symptoms like nasal congestion and runny nose may not be apparent in all cases.
23030	The symptoms of pulmonary edema may appear suddenly or develop in weeks or months depending on the cause. Sudden signs and symptoms include extreme shortness of breath, a feeling of suffocating or drowning, wheezing or gasping for breath, anxiety, restlessness, and a sense of apprehension, a cough that produces frothy sputum and may be tinged with blood, excessive sweating, pale skin, and chest pain if it the edema is cause by coronary artery disease. Symptoms that gradually develop include difficulty in breathing when lying flat, awakening at night with a breathless feeling, having more shortness of breath than normal when physically active, and significant weight gain when the edema develops because of congestive heart failure.
23031	Among the symptoms of pulmonary edema of mountaineers are a light feeling, severe dizziness and resistance to pain relievers, headache, difficulty in breathing, nausea, loss of appetite, vomiting and insomnia.
23032	Depending on how much of the lung is affected, the size of the clot and overall condition health condition, symptoms of Pulmonary embolism greatly vary. In the absence of underlying causes, common signs and symptoms include sudden shortness of breath, chest pain that often mimics a heart attack, a cough that produces bloody or blood-streaked sputum, and rapid heartbeat or tachycardia. Other signs and symptoms that can occur with the condition are wheezing, leg swelling, clammy or bluish-colored skin, excessive sweating, anxiety, weak pulse, lightheadedness or fainting (syncope), and fever.
23034	This disorder does not show any symptoms, or is asymptomatic, in its early stages. Symptoms, however, experienced in its later stages.
23035	Persons with pulmonary hypertension usually become easily tired, dizzy and suffer shortness of breath.
23036	Few or no symptoms are generally found with pulmonary valve insufficiency. A murmur may be initially noticed (using a stethoscope) in a medical exam of the heart and chest.
23037	Persons with this condition experience frequent chest pains and shortness of breath. They also easily get tired.
23038	In most cases pulmonary valve stenosis is asymptomatic, but some patients experience shortness of breath and frequent palpitations during severe stages.
23040	Persons with pulseless disease usually experience headaches, dizziness, chest and abdominal pain. They also experience fatigue, low-grade fever and weight loss.
23041	Patients with pure red cell aplasia commonly exhibit symptoms of anemia. They feel extremely weak and lethargic, and at the same time look pale. These patients easily get bruised. Low red blood cell count is also observed in these patients.
23042	Persons with this disease may experience autoimmune disorders, hemolytic anemia, and other neurological problems such as decline of development, hypotonia and mental retardation.
23043	The most obvious symptom of pupura are red and purple spots of varying sizes developing in different areas of the skin.
23044	Bruising may be found in different areas of the body without any know trauma. The bruising may occur in the thighs, buttocks and upper arm areas.
23045	Among the symptoms of Schloenlein-Henoch purpura are purple spots on the skin, gastrointestinal pain, joint pains and kidney disorders. Others meanwhile suffer from diarrhea, vomiting, and bloody stools.
23046	The signs and symptoms of TTP include fluctuating neurological symptoms, headaches, kidney failure, low platelet count, fever, and microangiopathic hemolytic anemia.
23047	Usually the symptoms are cellulites and skin infections with pus like boils. In very uncommon cases symptoms can be serious persistent infections.
23048	Persons with pyaemia usually experience abscesses, as well as chills, and high grade fever.
23049	Among the symptoms of the disease is abdominal pain, tenderness of the bladder area, as well as dysuria. Other signs of pyelonephritis are chills, fever, vomiting and headache.
23050	Babies with pyloric stenosis exhibit projectile vomiting and persistent hunger. They experience stomach contractions, dehydration, changes in bowel movements, and weight problems.
23051	Deep lesions begin to form on the affected parts of the skin, and when not immediately diagnosed, abscesses soon start to form as well. Pains on the skin as well as the abdomen are also felt.
23052	Physically, patients feel pain at the different parts of the body. Abscesses meanwhile develop on the skeletal muscles causing them to deteriorate.
23053	Pyridoxine (Vitamin B6) is a co-factor for glutamic acid decarboxylase, an enzyme that converts glutamate to GABA. Seizures may result from the simultaneous increase in the excitatory neurotransmitter glutamate, and decrease in inhibitory neurotransmitter or GABA as a result of the B6 deficiency.
23054	Starting fires Enjoyment/excitement associated to fires Depression Suicidal attempts Conflicts in relationships Incapacity to cope with stress
23056	Patients with the disease have anemia-like symptoms such as paleness of skin, weakness and low red blood cell count.
23057	Heartburn is an indication of organ functions. People who experience heartburn feel sudden burning spells in their upper abdomen.
23058	Among the symptoms of pyruvate dehydrogenase complex deficiency are slow development, ataxia, abnormal eye functions, seizures as well as poor muscle tone. These symptoms can be observed at childbirth or during the early stages of a child's growth. Progressive mental retardation can also result due to the effects of PDC on the brain.
23059	The symptoms of PKD include anemia, jaundice, slow development of body organs, as well as abnormal eye movements.
23060	The symptoms of Q fever include sudden onset of high fever, headache, myalgia, sore throat, chills, general malaise, nausea, coughing, and vomiting. Abdominal pain and diarrhea are also present. The fever may go on and off for 1 to 2 weeks. Other patients meanwhile succumb to pneumonia or hepatitis, depending on where the bacteria settled.
23062	Symptoms of the condition depend on the location and severity of the injury but patients experience the same symptoms no matter its type. Patients feel pain or an intense stinging sensation in the spinal cord; loss of movement, sensation, bowel, or bladder control; exaggerated reflex activities; changes in sexual function; and breathing difficulty. Emergency signs and symptoms may include fading in and out of consciousness; extreme back pain or pressure in the neck, head, or back; paralysis in any part of the body, loss of bladder or bowel control; or an abnormally positioned or twisted neck or back.
23064	A fever is developed after a tick bite withing 1 to 14 days (usually 7-10 days). More symptoms may also include: headache, muscle aches (myalgia), stiff neck, vomiting, nausea, and mental confusion. An eschar or an inoculation lesion of 2-5 mm in diameter can be seen in 65% of cases. In most cases, only one eschar is identified. Later, red spots or blistering rashes may develop on the face, palms and soles. Lymphadenopathy, Arthralgia, conjunctivitis, pharyngitis, dry cough, as well as pain in the abdomen may also be experienced.
23065	Most people exposed to the bacteria usually do not show signs and symptoms of being sick. However, those who get sick experience flu-like signs and symptoms after two to three weeks of exposure. These indivduals may have high fever, severe headache, fatigue , chest pain, clay-colored stools, or jaundice.
23066	The symptoms are similar to that of tonsillitis that includes: a worsening sore throat, usually on one side, fever, difficulty opening the mouth, difficulty swallowing, changes to your voice, bad breath, drooling rather than swallowing your own saliva, and swelling of the face and neck. Neck pain associated with tender, swollen lymph nodes, referred ear pain and breath odor are also common.
23067	Individuals exposed to the bacteria usually become sick within two to 10 days. Various types of the disease exist but affected individuals usually experience fever, chills, headache, and exhaustion. A certain type affects the eyes causing pain, redness, swelling and discharge, as well as ulcer inside of the eyelid. Another type causes vomiting and diarrhea.
23068	Generally, an animal infected with the rabies virus becomes excessively aggressive, attacks without provocation, and demonstrates uncharacteristic behavior. In infected humans, the rabies virus invades the peripheral nervous system and ultimately affects the CNS. When it reaches the brain, encephalitis or brain inflammation rapidly occurs. At this point, neurological symptoms appear and treatment is useless. There is an interval between infection and the onset of the first symptoms, which may last from 2 to 12 weeks, but may last for as long as 2 years. The first tell-tale signs are flu-like symptoms. Soon after the initial onset, these symptoms rapidly expand to paralysis, anxiety, cerebral dysfunction, insomnia, agitation, confusion, abnormal behavior, hallucinations, paranoia, terror, and delirium, among others. During the late stages, typical signs include an overproduction of excess saliva and tears. A patient may also lose the ability to speak or swallow, which can lead to hydrophobia due to the paralysis of both the jaw and the throat. The "foaming at the mouth" symptom which has been popularly associated with the disease is a result of the patient's inability to swallow their own saliva for long periods. The excess saliva is accumulated in the mouth until it overflows. Within two to ten days from the onset of symptoms, death almost invariably occurs. In isolated cases, a very small number of humans were known to survive the disease, but with the exception of one recorded case, all were left with severe brain damage.
23069	In the very few documented cases of this extremely rare disease, young patients demonstrated skin abnormalities, dental deformities, abdominal distention, and phallic enlargement. Inflicted children were described to have coarse, senile-like faces, striking hirsutism, and early dentition. Prognathism, very thick fingernails, and acanthosis nigricans were also noted. In the case of one girl, an adult hair growth was seen at 5 years of age. Another inflicted girl was observed to have enlarged genitalia at only 6 months old, large enough to allow vaginal examination for diagnosis of a left ovarian tumor. In all these cases, the inflicted children were mentally precocious. Insulin-resistant diabetes developed in these recorded cases, resulting in the deaths of the patients during childhood due to infections.
23070	Persons who were exposed to low levels of radiation are likely to experience changes in body temperature, as radiation has disrupted the body's resilience to different climates and weather changes. Those meanwhile who were exposed to high levels of radiation faced immediate death.
23071	The strength and amount of exposure experienced by a patient determines the severity of his or her sickness. Patients with a treatable condition may initially experience nausea and vomiting. Other patients with a more serious condition experience a period of no apparent illness.
23072	In addition to an extreme fear of radiation and x-rays, common symptoms of radiophobia include excessive sweating, breathlessness, shaking, dry mouth, heart palpitations, inability to speak clearly, fear of dying, paranoia, or even a full blown anxiety attack.
23073	No immediate symptoms are found. Symptoms may appear in the start of lung cancer. Smokers are more believed to be susceptible to develop radon-induced cancer of the lung.
23074	Raine syndrome presents with craniofacial anomalies, including exophthalmos, midface hypoplasia, microcephaly, cleft palate, gum hypertrophy and generalized osteosclerosis on radiography in newborns. Infants born with this condition usually die within a few hours after birth.
23075	Signs of Ramsay Hunt syndrome include facial paralysis and the appearance of red painful rashes or blisters in the ears or mouth. Other symptoms include ear pain, a loss of hearing, vertigo or dizziness, dry eye, and changes in taste sensation.
23076	Patients with Rapadilino syndrome exhibit craniofacial anomalies, more commonly in the form of a long face, long slender nose, narrow palpebral fissures, unusual ears, small chin, cleft palate, high arched palate, and hearing defects. Other known symptoms include patellar aplasia/hypoplasia, thumb agenesis (or the absence of thumbs), radial aplasia/hypoplasia, dislocation of the joints, still interphalangeal joints, infantile diarrhea, and mottled or stippled pigmentation. Inflicted patients are commonly small in stature and have normal intelligence.
23077	Early rapid gastric emptying happens during or after eating: Nausea Vomiting Bloating Cramping Diarrhea Dizziness Fatigue Late rapid gastric emptying happens after one to three hours after eating: Hypoglycemia Weakness Sweating Dizziness
23078	Rasmussen's encephalitis first manifests in childhood with the onset of epileptic seizures. Later, symptoms progress to one-sided paralysis of the body (hemiparesis), blindness of one eye (hemianopsia), inflammation of the brain (encephalitis), dementia, and ultimately, mental deterioration.
23079	Chills Fever Headache Muscle aches Arthritis Rash Open sore in bitten site
23080	Raynaud's disease presents with pale, painful, and cold extremities. For undiagnosed patients exposed to an extremely cold climate, the disease can be potentially lethal. Raynaud's disease is primarily a disorder of the blood vessels that supply blood to your skin. During an attack, these arteries narrow, thus limiting blood circulation to affected areas. Symptoms include visible changes in the color of your skin as a response to cold or stress. Often, it also manifests as a stinging sensation or a numb, prickly pain upon warming or relief of stress. Patients with secondary Raynaud's may also exhibit symptoms characteristic of the underlying disorder.
23081	Symptoms of razor bumps are red bumps or known also as pimples growing in the shaved area with a hair in the center. The bumps are infected and swollen with pus cells present.
23082	Reactive arthritis often manifests with three seemingly unrelated symptoms - an inflammatory arthritis of large joints, conjunctivitis and uveitis (inflammation of the eyes), and urethritis. In pop culture, a mnemonic for the disease has developed. A patient who "cant' see, can't pee, can't climb a tree" is frequently suspected of reactive arthritis. Inflicted patients usually experience a burning sensation during urination (dysuria) or an increased frequency of urination (polyuria). Other known symptoms include prostatitis in men, and vulvovaginitis, cervicitis, or salpingitis in women. Arthritis then follows, often affecting the large joints (e.g. the knees) and causing pain or swelling of small joints (e.g. hands and wrists).
23083	Disturbance in social interaction Extreme reluctance to receive affection and comfort from relatives or familiar adults Excessive attempts to receive affection and comfort even from strangers Excessive distress on separation Hasty behavior Vicious/rebellious attitude and behavior Strange/unusual speech patterns Incapacity/inability to learn from mistakes Hates being touched or held Excessively conscious of surroundings Lack of awareness in surroundings Reserved Worry/uneasiness Reluctant to listen Odd responses to others Pays no attention to interactions from others Extreme familiarity with strangers Looks for seclusion/isolation Lack of compassion/sympathy for others Keeps away from caregiver
23084	Symptoms of reactive hypoglycemia vary depending on the patient's sensitivity to fluctuations (i.e. rapid elevation and decline) of glucose levels in the body. Common symptoms include dizziness, fatigue, headaches, light-headedness, sweating, palpitations, nervousness, depression, irritability, flushing, tremors, increased appetite, increased craving for sweets, rhinitis, and even epileptic-type response to rapidly flashing lights.
23085	Rebound headaches usually occur daily and persist all through the day, with the worse pain at the start of a headache as the medication wears off. Other symptoms include anxiety, nausea, memory problems, depression, and trouble sleeping.
23086	Along with characteristic abscess or puss in the rectal area, rectal abscess generally has the following symptoms: rectal pain; rectal swelling; rectal warmth; rectal redness; and rectal tenderness. In some case, fever has been known to occur as well.
23087	Common signs and symptoms of rectal cancer include: prolonged rectal bleeding; presence of blood in stools; growth of rectal mass that obstructs normal stool passage; intense abdominal pains and cramps; a sensation that stool cannot be completely excreted following bowel movement; and unintended weight loss.
23088	The affected individual has frequent or continuous urge to relieve his or her bowel, bleeding or mucus discharge of the rectum, pain in the anus, rectum, or lower left abdomen, or frequent diarrhea in small amounts.
23089	Individuals suffer from burning sensation and soreness or pain in and around the anus. Some individuals cannot resist the urge to scratch the area due to intense irritation.
23090	Some symptoms of rectal neoplasm include passage of blood in the stool, gastrointestinal bleeding, constipation, altered bowel habits, and diarrhea. General discomfort in the abdomen (such as gas pains, bloating, fullness, and cramps), unexplained weight loss, severe exhaustion, and vomiting are also indicative of rectal neoplasm.
23091	Patients who suffer from rectal prolapse may undergo: pain during bowel movements, mucus or blood discharge from the protruding tissue, fecal incontinence or the inability to control bowel movements, loss of urge to defecate, and awareness of something protruding upon wiping
23092	Individuals suffering from the condition may have bleeding or mucus discharge of the rectum, constipation, diarrhea, or rectal pain or anal sphincter spasms. Others may not manifest any symptoms.
23093	A mild condition does not show any signs or symptoms. If not, the patient feels a soft bulge of tissue inside the vagina, which may either protrude or not through the vaginal opening. The person may also experience difficulty defecating or controlling the passing of feces, and may need to press the fingers on the bulge in the vagina to help push stool out during defecation.
23094	In its early stages, rectosigmoid neoplasm is often asymptomatic. In later stages, it manifests with rectal bleeding, urinary symptoms, altered bowel habits, presence of blood in stool or black stool, abdominal pains, weakness, severe weight loss and appetite loss.
23095	The symptoms of rectum cancer include bright red stool because of the blood, ribbon stools, pelvic pain and chronic fatigue.
23096	An individual with a subconjunctival hemorrhage has a bright red patch on the white of the eye. It does not cause a discharge from the affected eye and does not distort the vision. The patient only has a scratchy feeling on the affected eye's surface.
23097	Apart from the red rashes on the skin, other mild symptoms such as sore throat and light fever.
23098	CRPS symptoms often manifest in an area near the site of an injury, whether minor or major, and ultimately spreading beyond the original area. In reflex sympathetic dystrophy syndrome, the most common symptom is severe burning pain at the site of the injury. Patients may also suffer from muscle spasm, restricted mobility, joint stiffness, pathological changes in bone and skin, and constriction of the blood vessels that affect skin color and temperature. Other known symptoms include excessive sweating, tissue swelling, and an oversensitivity to touch. If diagnosis and treatment is delayed, inflicted patients may suffer from extreme physical and psychological problems.
23101	Neurological damage is usually present in patients with refsum's disease. Other disorders related to this disorder are: cerebral degeneration and periphiral neuropathy. Symptoms include: night blindness, ataxia, scaly skin (ichthyosis), hearing distortions, as well as eye abnormalities such as cataracts.
23102	Symptoms of regional enteritis may manifest with gastrointestinal, systemic, or extraintestinal symptoms. The leading gastrointestinal symptoms are pain in the abdomen, constipation, diarrhea, vomiting, rectal bleeding, stomach ulcers, gastrointestinal bleeding, and rapid weight loss or weight gain. Systemic symptoms may come in the form of growth failure or growth retardation among children. In adults, regional enteritis may lead to severe weight loss because afflicted patients often lose their appetite. In addition, regional enteritis can potentially affect other organ systems, resulting in extraintestinal symptoms. In early stages, patients may exhibit with milder symptoms such as joint pain, fever, eye pain, mouth ulcers, abscess, and skin rashes.
23103	When caused by a preceding infection, the symptoms of Reiter's syndrome usually appear between 1-3 weeks after the infection. The most common symptom is inflammation of the tissues as a reaction to an injury or disease. Swelling, redness, heat, and pain are indicative signs. Although Reiter's syndrome can affect many different parts of the body, it most commonly affects the joints, urogenital tract, and the eyes. Less common symptoms of Reiter's syndrome include skin rashes, mouth ulcers, and heart-valve problems.
23104	Patients with reiters arthritis commonly experience the same pains typical arthritis brings, instead that more pain can be felt in the pelvic area. Urinary tract infection can also be observed.
23105	Sudden occurrence of fever Rigors Neck stiffness and headache Nausea Vomiting Myalgia (muscle aches) Arthralgia (joint aches) Bleeding Seizures/fits Unsteady gait Face is drooping Coma Weakness
23105	Other symptoms found with relapsing fever are: fever, generalized body aches, myalgias, arthalgias, headache, chills, sweats. Symptoms that occur later are: nausea, vomiting, anorexia, dry cough, photophobia, rashes, neck pain, eye pain, confusion and dizziness.
23106	Relapsing Polychondritis is a rare and chronic condition where the cartilage of different tissues become inflamed. Part of the body affect may include the ears, the nose, windpipe, spine and joints. Because the heat, eyes and blood vessels have similar make-ups, these can also be affected.
23107	The most common form of renal agenesis is unilateral, in which an infant is born without one kidney. Unilateral renal agenesis usually does not pose significant risk, as long as the other kidney remains healthy. Adults with unilateral renal agenesis have more risk of developing hypertension and high blood pressure, and are often advised against playing contact sports. Bilateral renal agenesis, the absence of both kidneys at birth, is more uncommon yet generally considered to be more serious or severe. The absence of both kidneys in a fetus causes Oligohydramnios (or deficiency of amniotic fluid) in the mother during pregnancy. Under normal circumstances, the mother's amniotic fluid serves as a cushion for the developing fetus. However, when there is an insufficiency of this fluid, there is more risk of the fetus getting compressed and suffering from further malformations.
23108	Most patients suffering from renal artery stenosis are asymptomatic. The problem, however, is rooted in the resulting high blood pressure which usually cannot be managed through medication. Renal defects and gradual deterioration in renal function can potentially develop if both kidneys are poorly supplied. In some cases, renal artery stenosis manifests with attacks of sudden left ventricular heart failure (or flash pulmonary edema).
23109	Renal calculi or kidney stones present with excruciating pain from the loins to the groins. Hematuria, or blood in the urine, may also occur due to minor damage to the inside wall of the kidney, ureter, or urethra. Rarely, patients may suffer from dysuria, or a burning sensation during urination. A reduced volume of urine (oliguria) may also occur as a consequence of the obstruction of the bladder or urethra by the stones. Also, patients may experience nausea and vomiting because the embryological link with intestine stimulates the vomiting center.
23110	Flank pain, hematuria, and abdominal mass are the three most common symptoms of renal cancer, particularly of renal cell carcinoma. These three signs are collectively called "too late triad", due to the fact that in most cases, these symptoms present at a time when the disease is too advanced for any form of intervention. Most of renal tumors are asymptomatic and detected incidentally in unrelated screening. Other indicative signs include abnormal urine color, weight loss, vision abnormalities, plethora or pallor, high blood pressure, constipation, and hypercalcemia (elevated levels of calcium).
23111	Renal carbuncle typically causes various symptoms such as: localized pain; fever; chills; and general malaise.
23112	Renal cell carcinomas can grow in size without causing any visible symptoms. Typically, renal cell carcinomas present with blood in the urine. Other common symptoms include persistent lower back pain, fatigue, abdominal mass, weight loss, fever unrelated to infection, and a distinct swelling of the legs. Frequently, however, these symptoms are mistakenly attributed to other conditions.
23113	The intensity and the location of the pain is dependent on the size and the type of stones that are moving through the kidneys. A list of symptoms includes: severe urinary pain (pain the back of the abdomen, genital and the inner thighs), nausea, vomiting, swollen abdomen, fever, blood in urine, and chills.
23114	Common signs of renal dysplasia mesomelia radiohumeral fusion syndrome includes the following: abnormal kidney development, retarded growth, missing arm bones and leg bones, fused forearm bones, short arms, mesomelia, external genitalia deformities, rib anomalies, Potter-like facies, underdeveloped lungs, and respiratory distress, among others. Afflicted patients were described as having a beaked or broad nose, a high arched palate, a short neck, a small jaw, short stature, and clubfoot. In documented cases, infants with the syndrome all died shortly after birth.
23115	In most cases, renal glycosuria is asymptomatic and has no serious effects.
23116	Renal osteodystrophy may be mostly asymptomatic. When the condition does exhibit symptoms, the most common signs are pain in the bones and joints, bone fracture, and bone deformation.
23117	This renal disease may by quite lazy and often present no early symptoms. However, later symptoms may include: kidney inflammation, pyelonephritis, fever, chills, shivering, loss of appetite, weight loss, malaise and kidney pain.
23118	The first type of renal tubular acidosis, Distal RTA (dRTA), is the most common form. Symptoms of Type I RTA include normal anion gap metabolic acidosis, urinary stone formation, mild to severe hypokalemia, bone demineralisation (resulting in rickets in children and osteomalacia in adults), and nephrocalcinosis (or deposition of calcium in the substance of the kidney). The second most common type of RTA, proximal RTA (pRTA), is associated with a more generalized malfunction of the proximal tubular cells, but may also occur as a solitary defect. The common feature of pRTA is bone demineralization as a consequence of phosphate wasting. Type 3 RTA is a rare mix of dRTA and pRTA, and pertains to a genetic defect which results in osteopetrosis, distal renal tubular acidosis, proximal renal tubular acidosis, cerebral calcification and subsequent mental impairment. Meanwhile, Type 4 RTA is not actually a tubular disorder at all and does not have a clinical syndrome consistent with other types of renal tubular acidosis. It is, however, associated with a mild metabolic acidosis resulting from a physiological reduction in distal tubular ammonium excretion (secondary to hypoaldosteronism). The most common symptom of Type 4 RTA is hyperkalemia. The metabolic acidosis that results from renal tubular acidosis may be caused either by failure to recover sufficient alkaline (or bicarbonate ions) from the filtrate (blood filtered by the kidneys) in the early portion of the nephron (proximal tubule) or by insufficient secretion of acid (hydrogen ions) into the latter portions of the nephron (distal tubule). Each form of renal tubular acidosis has its own distinct set of potential causes.
23119	Repetitive strain injury conditions have varied symptoms. At the onset, the most common signs include recurring pain or soreness in neck, shoulders, upper back, wrists, or hands. A certain numbness, tingling, coldness, or loss of sensation may be experienced. Affected individuals often lose their grip strength and endurance, and suffer from weakness. Arm and shoulder muscles may feel wiry and hard when palpated. Patients may also experience numbness or pain while lying down. These symptoms are usually attributed to unrelated causes and often overlooked.
23120	The most distinct sign of respiratory acidosis is difficulty in breathing. The condition also commonly presents with headaches, tremors, restlessness, drowsiness, and confusion. Upon examination, changes in blood pressure, a rapid heart rate, and a swelling of eye blood vessels may be observed. In addition, respiratory acidosis may trigger a response to metabolic alkalosis, which may in turn lead to the appearance of a bluish or purplish discoloration of the skin due to inadequate oxygen intake. In severe cases, respiratory acidosis can lead to coma and death.
23121	Symptoms of respiratory diphtheria typically manifest between 2-4 days after exposure to the infectious bacterium. The bacterium commonly multiplies in the throat of infected individuals, leading to the formation of a membrane over the throat and tonsils. Common symptoms of respiratory diphtheria include: a sore throat; breathing difficulties; hoarser or huskier voice; increased heart rate; stridor or a shrill breathing sound heard during inspiration; nasal drainage; swelling of the palate; low-grade fever; and general malaise. Complications arise when the membrane formed by reproducing bacteria obstructs breathing, eventually causing asphyxiation and even death. Another complication of diphtheria arises when the bacteria release toxins in the blood, which can cause heart failure.
23121	The symptoms vary depending on the stage of incubation of the virus. In the onset, patients may have sore throat and low-grade fever. In severe cases, a person may suffer from asphyxiation (obstructed breathing by the membrane), which may lead to death. A bull neck (swelling of the neck) is another serious sign of the sickness. Rare effects of this toxin include complications like myocarditis (swelling of the heart), and nerve paralysis.
23122	Majority of patients suffering from this condition experience the following: short of breath, impaired mental functions due to either low oxygen and/or high carbon dioxide, confusion, disorientation, and an inability to engage in normal work or activities. Too much CO2 can cause headache, leading to a semi-conscious state, or, in severe cases, even coma. Skins of patients with low blood oxygen may appear bluish; and can produce arrhythmia.
23123	URI may produce some of the following symptoms: scratchy or sore throat, sneezing, runny nose, and nasal congestion, cough, watery eyes, ear congestion, slight fever, headache and loss of appetite
23124	The known symptoms are fever, cough, runny nose, cough, wheezing or shortness of breath, pneumonia, bronchiolitis and cold-like symptoms.
23125	Common symptoms of respiratory system cancer include: shortness of breath, especially during exertion; syncope; dyspnoea; sputum production; fever; chills; rigors; sore throat; nasal discharge; bad breath; haemoptysis; chest pain; tachypnoea; tachycardia; fatigue; and unintended weight loss.
23126	Restless legs syndrome causes a sensation akin to burning, itching, or tickling in the muscles of the affected body parts. Moving the affected area provides temporary relief. However, the sensations often return immediately after movement is ceased. The sensations associated with restless legs syndrome are odd and unusual, and may occur in any body part. While afflicted patients usually have difficulty describing their sensations, the words uncomfortable, creeping, antsy, painful, pins and needles, creepy-crawly, pulling, and the like have been used. On the other hand, there are cases when affected patients have little or no sensation, yet they still experience a strong urge to move. A key factor in restless legs syndrome is the worsening of sensations during relaxation. Any form of inactivity while sitting or lying down can trigger symptoms.
23127	The list below shows the top known symptoms of Restrictive cardiomyopathy: Congestive heart failure Weakness Fatigue Breathlessness Swollen legs Fluid retention Nausea/vomiting Abdominal bloating/swelling Poor appetite
23130	Retinal detachment usually comes after a posterior vitreous detachment. Symptoms may include: photopia (brief flashes of light from the extreme peripheral part of vision), patient sees a sudden increase of floaters, and heaviness of the eyes. Severe cases also include the following symptoms: patient sees a dense shadow starting from the peripheral vision progressing to the central vision, a ?veil? drawn over vision, and central vision loss.
23131	Retinitis pigmentosa initially presents as a defective dark adaptation or night blindness (nyctalopia) preceded by years or decades of tunnel vision. These initial signs are followed by the constriction of the peripheral visual field and eventually, in later stages, loss of central vision. The progression of retinitis pigmentosa varies in every case. In some cases, affected individuals do not become blind until they reach their 40s or 50s and even retain some of their sight in their lifetimes. However, most patients go completely blind from retinitis pigmentosa. In some cases, blindness occurs as early as childhood.
23132	The retinoblastoma tumor usually remains undetected, since most affected children hardly complain of poor vision. The most common symptom is leukocoria, or a white reflex behind the pupil of the eyes. As it resembles the eyes of felines, this symptom is sometimes referred to as the cat's eye reflex. In addition, retinoblastoma may present as poor vision, a tell-tale squint (crossed eye), inflammation of tissues surrounding the eye, painful red eye, and a visible protrusion of the eye ball, among others.
23133	RS affects two aspects of the affected individual's vision. First, retinoschisis may impair the central vision. Secondly, the peripheral vision may be damaged as a result of the splitting of the inner layer of nerve cells from the outer layer of cells. In severe cases, retinoschisis can lead to retinal detachments, often as a consequence of a defect in the anchoring of the retina's outer layer to the wall of the eyes.
23134	A retractile testicle may move on its own or by hand, it either moves quickly or slowly, and may remain for a period of time in the scrotum retracting again.
23135	There is little or no semen after orgasm and when urinating, the urine is cloudy due to semen. It also results in male infertility.
23136	Retrolental fibroplasias may be mild and resolve spontaneously. However, in serious cases, it can lead to blindness. Common symptoms of retrolental fibroplasias in preterm infants are visual disturbance, retinal detachment, absent papillary light reflexes, potential blindness, dilated or twisted eye vessels, opaque retrolental eye membrane, retinal edema, and retinal hemorrhages.
23137	Common symptoms of retroperitoneal fibrosis include renal failure, deep vein thrombosis, lower back pain, hypertension, and a range of other obstructive symptoms.
23138	Rett syndrome presents with symptoms that are very similar to Angelman syndrome and autism. Infants affected with this disease generally develop normally until their 6th to 18th month. At this point, the rate of neurological development plateaus, followed by regression of previously acquired skills. Common indicative signs include small hands and feet in afflicted infants, as well as a deceleration of the rate of head growth. In some cases, microcephaly was also observed. In addition, affected patients may exhibit stereotypic and repetitive hand movements; e.g. wringing and/or mouthing. In most cases, patients demonstrate cognitive impairment and problems with socialization, especially during the regression period. Growth impairment, scoliosis, and constipation may also pose problems. Rett syndrome in females often leads to gastrointestinal disorders and seizures, and even an absence of verbal skills. Roughly half of documented female patients are not ambulatory.
23139	Revesz Debuse syndrome usually presents with retinopathy, anemia, calcification of the brain, central nervous system anomalies, retarded fetal growth, underdeveloped cerebellum, neutropenia, abnormal platelet shape, retinal detachment, changes in the retinal blood vessel, ataxia, nail anomaly, and progressive psychomotor retardation. Afflicted patients frequently have abnormally fine hair and an abnormally small head.
23140	Reye's syndrome generally manifests within a week after a bout with a viral infection, such as chickenpox and influenza. As the child appears to be recovering from the infection, a more serious illness begins to develop. At the onset, affected children may demonstrate a decline in mental alertness, vomiting, persistent nausea, disoriented behavior, lethargy or unusual sleepiness, and uncharacteristic aggression. Symptoms of Reye's syndrome progresses rapidly, and may worsen within a matter of hours. In severe stages, children may experience loss of consciousness, weakness, paralysis of the extremities, as well as convulsions and seizures. When these symptoms emerge, emergency treatment is invariably required. Reye's syndrome mostly affects children between 4 and 12 years old.
23142	Affected mothers are usually asymptomatic. However, the Rh positive infant may experience problems if the mother develops antibodies to the disease. In the affected fetus, Rh disease presents with an enlarged liver, heart, or spleen. There may also be a build up of fluids in the fetus' abdomen. Also, amniocentesis, or a yellowish discoloration of the amniotic fluid, is often detected.
23143	Rhabdoid tumors have varied symptoms, which depend largely on the age of the affected child as well as the location of the tumor. In documented cases, common symptoms include seizures, enlargement of the skull combined with increased pressure on the brain (hydrocephalus), as well as enlarged head size (fontanels) in infants. Affected children suffer from raised intracranial pressure because the rhabdoid tumor obstructs the normal flow of the cerebrospinal fluid, causing an overproduction of fluid. The abnormal accumulation of fluids in turn leads to vomiting, headaches, lethargy, and movement restrictions.
23144	Rhabdomyolysis usually presents with tenderness, pain, weakness, and swelling (i.e. edema) of a previously injured or strained muscle. If swelling is extremely rapid (e.g. after being freed from a collapsed building), shock and low blood pressure may occur as a result of decreased fluid in the bloodstream. The swelling of damaged muscles sometimes cause compartment syndrome, a condition in which the swollen muscle of surrounding tissues are compressed in the same fascial compartment. This, in turn, results in damage or loss of function in the affected areas. When compartment syndrome occurs, there may be a decrease in blood supply, a decrease in sensation, or pain in the parts of the body involved. The release of the components of muscle tissue into the bloodstream disrupts the body's electrolytes, thus leading to vomiting, nausea, coma, confusion, and cardiac arrhythmias in patients.
23146	The most common clinical symptom of embryonal rhabdomyosarcoma is vaginal bleeding. However, this symptom is not unique to embryonal rhabdomyosarcoma and may be attributed to other types of vaginal cancers. An important diagnostic step is, therefore, eliminating other possible causes of vaginal bleeding. On average, symptoms of embryonal rhabdomyosarcoma present at age 3. While associated mostly in young children, isolated cases of the disease occurring in adult females have also been reported.
23147	There appears to be no detectable symptoms. However, this is considered a high risk pregnancy for expectant moms.
23148	Rheumatic fever causes an inflammation in the organ systems of the body, particularly the heart and joints. Symptoms vary according to which areas are affected and typically appear weeks after the disappearance of throat syndromes. Common manifestations include fever, chest pain, joint pain, palpitations, jerky movements, rashes, and small bumps on the skin.
23149	Indicators of this heart disorder varies. Sometimes, damage is not noticed right away. The more common symptoms of this condition are: breathlessness, fatigue, palpitations, chest pain, and fainting attacks. Fever, swollen and extremely painful joints (knees, ankles, elbows, or wrists in particular), nodules over swollen joints, red and lattice-like rash, usually on the chest, back, and abdomen and uncontrolled movements of arms, legs, or facial muscles can also be experienced.
23151	Rheumatoid arthritis can lead to a substantial loss of mobility due to extreme pain and joint destruction. Hallmark signs include prolonged stiffness of the joints, nodules resulting from inflamed blood vessels, fluid buildup in affected areas, and flu-like symptoms. Rheumatoid arthritis invariably presents with synovitis, a condition pertaining to an inflammation of the synovial membrane that covers the joint. As a result, the affected joints become swollen, red, tender, and warm. Synovitis also makes the joints stiff, preventing their use. Small joints are more commonly affected, including the cervical spine, hands, and feet. However, there are cases where larger joints (knees, shoulders, etc.) are also involved. As the disease progresses, the inflammation causes erosion and destruction of the surface of the joints, thus impairing movements and eventually causing deformity. Afflicted patients typically have ulnar deviation (where the fingers are deviated towards the little finger). Other symptomatic deformities include Boutonniere deformity (i.e. hyperflexion at the proximal interphalangeal joint plus hyperextension at the distal interphalangeal joint), swan neck deformity (i.e. hyperextension at the proximal interphalangeal joint and hyperflexion at the distal interphalangeal joint), Z-thumb deformity (i.e. thumb has fixed flexion and subluxation), and hyperextension of the IP joint.
23152	Affected individuals may feel pain and stiffness in their lower back and hips in the early stages of the condition. These symptoms usually worsen during periods without activity such as in the morning and at night. They may progress up the spine and to other joints, such as those in the hips, shoulders, knees, and feet.
23153	The primary symptom of rhinitis is a runny nose. The inflammation may also cause an overabundant production of muscus leading to nasal congestion and post-nasal drip.
23154	Signs and symptoms may nclude a runny nose and nasal congestion, watery or itchy eyes, coughing, sneezing, sinus pressure and facial pain, decreased sense of smell or taste, and swollen, blue-colored skin below the eyes.
23155	There are several indicators of this medical condition including: glandular, fibrous, fibroangiomatous, enlarged nose marked by lobular sebaceous hyperplasia, nasal overgrowth relating to higher density nasal connective tissue, and prominent copper-red In rare cases, patients can suffer an enlarged cushion-like swelling in the forehead (metophyma), swelling of the eye lids (blepharophyma), cauliflower-like swelling of the earlobes (otophyma) or swelling of the chin (gnathophyma).
23158	The main sytmpoms that exhibit rib inflammation are extreme chest pain, irregular heartbeat, stiffness of the rib cage, restlessness and difficulty in breathing.
23159	Signs of riboflavin deficiency include the following: cheilosis (swelling and cracking of the lips), angular stomatitisis (cracks or ulcers at the corners of the mouth), sore throat, dry and scaly skin particularly on the area between the nose and the eyes, the scrotum and vulva, and bloodshot, watery and itchy eyes. Other symptoms include: numbness of the hands and a decreased sensitivity to touch, temperature, and vibration.
23160	Richter syndrome commonly presents with weight loss, muscle mass loss, fever, and other related health problems. It is important to note that Richter syndrome is a fast-growing cancer, and affected patients can become quite suddenly ill.
23161	Among the symptoms of the poisoning are diarrhea and cases of shock.
23162	Common symptoms of rickets include tenderness and pain in the bones, dental deformities, muscle weakness, predisposition to fractures (easily broken bones), skeletal deformities, normal growth disruptions, hypocalcemia, soft skull (craniotabes), uncontrolled muscle spasms (tetany), Harrison's groove, and double malleoli resulting from metaphyseal hyperplasia. Among toddlers with advanced rickets, bow legs can be observed in x-rays or radiographs. A deformed chest is also quite common among affected children. Skeletal deformities can present as a "square headed" appearance. If untreated, these deformities may persist into adult life. Long-term symptoms can include permanent disfiguration of the long bones and a distinctly curved back.
23166	In affected humans, Rift Valley Fever can manifest with a variety of symptoms. Most cases may be asymptomatic or present only with mild headaches, fever, myalgia, and liver abnormalities. At the onset, infected patients can suffer from generalized weakness, fever, nausea, backaches, and weight loss. Recovery typically takes 2-7 days from the onset of the disease. In less than two percent of cases, the disease can progress to inflammation of the brain (meningoencephalitis), hemorrhagic fever syndrome, or eye disorders. Approximately one percent of infected humans may die from severe complications. Among infected livestock, the percentage can be significantly higher.
23167	This heart condition can come with the following symptoms: shortness of breath, swelling of the feet and ankles, frequent urination at night, pronounced neck veins, palpitations, irregular fast heartbeat, fatigue, weakness, and fainting.
23168	Patients with Riley-Day syndrome may lose their sensitivity to pain and ability to produce tears, as well as suffer from poor growth, episodic/postural hypertension, pneumonia, vomiting, speech impediments, movement disruptions, and difficulty swallowing, among others. Affected patients may also experience inappropriate perception of taste, pain, and heat, along with unstable blood pressure and gastrointestinal dysmolity. In affected infants, the most distinctive symptom is the absence of tears with emotional crying after 7 months old. In addition, there may be a high incidence of breech presentation, absence of suck and poor tone, misdirected swallowing, and red blotches in the skin. In older children, hallmark signs include delayed speech and walking ability, unsteady gait, corneal abrasion, spinal curvature, decreased pain and heat perception, growth and development defects, unstable blood pressure, reddish puffy hands, and persistence of dysautonomia crisis. The latter pertains to a range of symptoms in response to physical and emotional distress, which may include increased heart rate, high blood pressure, vomiting, sweating, drooling, skin blotching, and adverse personality changes.
23169	The most distinctive symptom of ringworm is the appearance of itchy reddish raised skin patches that resemble rings. These patches or bumps have lighter centers with defined edges or hyperpigmentation around the circumference, thus giving the appearance of a ring. If ringworm infects the scalp or beard area, the affected patient may develop bald patches. The affected area, regardless of location, can become extremely itchy. In some cases, the infection can cause dermatophytids, which is defined as skin lesions occurring elsewhere in the body (remote from the actual infection itself). These lesions are fungus-free and usually disappear shortly after treatment of the actual infection. Dermatophytids are believed to be an allergic reaction to the fungus.
23170	Infected individuals have an itchy, circle rash that is red and inflamed at the edges. More than one patch may appear on an infected person's skin, who may also have the infection without having the common rash associated with the condition.
23171	Ringworm of the scalp is usually affects children who would experience having scalps with itchy, red, and bald-looking patches. These patches may be painful or tender and gradually expand.
23172	Here are some known symptoms of river blindness: Extreme itching Nodules in the skin Hives-like rash Limbs are swelling Spotty skin Wrinkled and toughed skin Groin lymph nodes are enlarged Eyes are itchy and red Cataracts Vision is blurred or unclear
23173	The faces of affected patients share a distinct resemblance with the face of a fetus. The term "fetal facies" is used to describe this phenomenon, mainly in reference to widely spaced eyes in a small face. Other clinical signs include a prominent forehead, a short upturned nose, and a flat nasal bridge. A "tented" upper lip exposing dental crowding as well as ears set low on the head may also be observed. Abnormalities in the lower eyelid give the impression of protruding eyes which may or may not close fully. Also, affected patients suffer from dwarfism, showing small feet, short lower arms, and tiny hands. Toes and fingers tend to be abnormally short and bent. In some patients, thumbs are displaced. Vertebral segmentation abnormalities are also common among affected individuals. In males, the syndrome presents with an abnormally small penis (micropenis). In females, the clitoris and labia minora may be underdeveloped.
23174	Rocky Mountain spotted fever commonly presents with nausea, fever, muscle pain, appetite loss, emesis and severe headache at the onset. These initial symptoms are then followed by the development of rashes (both maculopapular and petechial) along with abdominal and joint pain.
23175	Rod myopathy has a wide range of physical presentations, but the most common symptom is weakness concentrated in the proximal muscles. The most frequently affected areas are the bulbar, respiratory, and trunk muscles. Individuals with severe rod myopathy usually show symptoms at birth; while those with mild or intermediate rod myopathy may initially appear unaffected. Children born with the disease frequently gain strength as they grow; however, muscle weakness takes a heavy toll on body features through time. Meanwhile, adults with rod myopathy tend to have a very slender physique. In general, patients with severe rod myopathy have restricted limb movement. Some use wheelchairs for mobility during their lifetime. Scoliosis and osteoporosis also appear to be common problems because of the weakness of the trunk muscles. As in many neuromuscular disorders, respiratory complications may also arise. Babies born with the disease suffer from respiratory distress soon after birth. Most require a tracheostomy for breathing assistance. In addition, throat (bulbar) muscle impairment is a main symptom of rod myopathy. Most affected patients have difficulty swallowing and require feeding tubes for daily nutrition. Communication skills and speech may also be impaired due to the poor closure of the velopharyngeal port, an area between the soft palate and the back of the throat.
23176	Skin ulcerates and forms a scab. The scabbing may fall off, but will reform and not heal. This is the initial stage of the cancer. Basal cells are basically normal skin cells. Skin ulcer develops and may bleed easily or does not heal.
23177	Romano-Ward syndrome is the most common type of hereditary long QT syndrome, which occurs in approximately 1 in 5,000 individuals worldwide. However, it is believed that more people are afflicted but never show symptoms of the disease. The hallmark sign of Romano-Ward syndrome is irregular heartbeats. If untreated, this can lead to seizures, fainting, or sudden death.
23178	The known symptoms are redness of the skin, bumps in the skin, pimples, nasal sin is thick and small facial blood vessels are broken. During exercising persisting redness happens, temperature change and cleansing.
23181	Rash/hives/itchiness Mild fever Symptoms similar to arthritis Pain in the joint Severa joints are affected Joints (hand and feet) are swelling Rash/itchiness on cheeks and forehead Rash/itchiness spreading to the trunk and limbs
23182	An individual with a rotator cuff injury may feel pain and tenderness in the shoulder, loss of shoulder range of motion, and inclined to keep the affected shoulder inactive.
23183	This virus manifests itself though Rotavirus gastroenteritis. It is a Characterized by mild to severe vomiting, diarrhea, low-grade fever and dehydration. Incubation of the virus is about 2 days before symptoms appear.
23184	Rotor syndrome is characterized by elevated levels of bilirubin in the blood. The three most common clinical presentations of rotor syndrome are fluctuating jaundice, epigastric discomfort, and bilirubin in the urine. In some cases, abdominal pain, fever, and liver enlargement may occur. Jaundice typically appears in childhood as a consequence of defects in biliary excretion. In affected patients, plasma bilirubin is usually conjugated; while liver functions tests appear normal.
23185	Frequently, Rubella only presents with mild symptoms and often goes unnoticed. However, an infection in a pregnant woman can lead to serious repercussions in her fetus. The child of an infected mother may be born with congenital rubella syndrome (CRS), a chronic and often incurable disease. If not for the potentially harmful effects of transplacental infection on a developing fetus, acquired rubella itself is a relatively trivial disease. Following an incubation period of 2 to 3 weeks, Rubella presents with the appearance of a rash on the face, spreading towards the limbs and trunks. This rash (exanthema) is typically resolved after 3 days. Other common symptoms include swollen glands and low grade fever.
23186	Congenital rubella syndrome can lead to serious birth defects. Affected infants are commonly born with malformations of the heart, eyes, or brain, as well as defects in the spleen, liver, or bone marrow. Mental retardation, deafness, microcephaly (small head), thrombocytopenic purpura, low birth weight, micrognathia, and hepatomegaly are also characteristic of congenital rubella. As rubella-exposed children age, they should be monitored closely for potential complications in the form of schizophrenia, growth/development problems, learning disabilities, glaucoma, or diabetes.
23187	Rubeola presents with a rash and fever that typically lasts for three or more days, along with the three Cs: coryza (runny nose), cough, and conjunctivitis (red eyes). The appearance of a generalized, maculopapular, erythematous rash is a classical sign of Rubeola. The rash, which typically begins on the head before spreading to cover most of the body, has been described as itchy and may change colors (from red to dark brown) before disappearing. Rubeola has an incubation period of 4-12 days, during which the affected individual appears asymptomatic. Infected individuals then remain contagious from the onset of initial symptoms to 2-3 days after the characteristic rash disappears.
23188	Classical presentations of Rubinstein-Taybi syndrome include: mental disability/retardation (ranges from moderate to severe); broad thumbs and first toes; cryptorchidism in males; unusual face with oddly formed eyes, nose and palate; plus small stature (height), small head, and bone growth defects. Other symptoms of the disease vary. It is believed that patients with Rubinstein-Taybi syndrome have an increased risk of developing cancerous and noncancerous tumors, lymphoma, and leukemia.
23190	Among the symptoms of the illness is pain on the knees, cramps and tingling sensation in the kneecap.
23191	The patient feels an abdominal pain and tenderness, blurred vision and fainting, or lightheaded or confused due to a drop in blood pressure.
23192	Among the symptoms present in a person with the disorder is the ability to thrive, slow growth, short stature, short, stubby fingers, and kidney problems.
23195	Affected patients have weak motor function in the area below the normal portion of the spine, as well as impaired sensory function below the level of the affected vertebrae. In its most severe form, sacral genesis can lead to a partial or complete absence of the lumbar spine and even the lower thoracic spine. If severe, the disease is commonly referred to as lumbosacral agenesis.
23196	The condition is an indentation, or "pit," in the skin on the lower back, above the crease between the buttocks.
23197	Sacroiliitis may manifest as pain and stiffness in the lower back, thighs, or buttocks; pain that affects the hips and shoulders; bloody diarrhea; inflammation in one or both eyes; or psoriasis. The patient may also experience a low-grade fever.
23198	A classic presentation of Saethre-Chotzen syndrome is synostosis (osseous union) of the coronal sutures of the skull, leading to such distinctive features as ptosis (drooped eyelids), facial asymmetry, and small ears. Two or more fingers (often the second or third digits) are usually fused together (a condition known as syndactyly). In general, intelligence of affected individuals is normal. However, some patients may develop mild to moderate mental retardation.
23200	A telltale sign of salivary gland cancer is the appearance of a painless lump on or near the jaw, neck, or mouth. Other symptoms include: numbness in some areas of the face; one-sided facial muscle weakness; persistent pain; swallowing difficulties; inability to open the mouth widely; as well as a sudden noticeable difference in size between the left and right sides of the face.
23201	In the first months of life of affected babies, nystagmus, hypotomia, and cognitive impairment can occur. In severe cases, affected children never learn to walk and comprehend language. However, most patients do acquire language, eventually learn to walk, and have normal life expectancy. In general, muscular hypotonia and slowly progressive neurologic deterioration present at 6-9 months of age. Clumsiness and mental retardation may begin at 12 to 18 months. In the second decade of life, a more distinctive physical decline may be observed, including ataxia, psychomotor deterioration, enlarged storage lysosomes, and elevated sialic acid in the urine.
23202	There is an incubation period of 1 to 2 days before the symptoms become apparent. These symptoms may include: fever, nausea, vomiting, diarrhea (may rarely contain blood or mucus), abdominal cramps and pain. For serious cases, salmonella may cause: osteomyelitis, arthritis, pericarditis, meningitis, hepatitis and pneumonia.
23203	Symptoms of Salmonellosis are generally gastrointestinal, including vomiting, abdominal cramps, nausea, and bloody diarrhea with mucus. Fever, fatigue, headache, and rose spots may also occur. The illness typically lasts for 3-7 days, with symptoms appearing 6-72 hours after ingestion of the bacterium. In most cases, the infection can run its course and affected patients recover without treatment. Complications of Salmonellosis are more common among the very old (the elderly) and the very young (infants), as well as those with weak immune systems. Reiters syndrome (or reactive arthritis) may potentially develop, leading to serious long-term repercussions. In severe cases, the infection can also spread from the intestines to the blood stream, and then to other areas of the body. In such cases, the disease can be fatal if untreated.
23204	Symptoms of this condition usually appear after a menstrual period. The most common indicators are: abnormal smell and color of vaginal discharge, pain during ovulation, pain during sexual intercourse, recurring pain during periods, abdominal pain, lower back pain, fever, nausea and vomiting.
23205	At first the disease shows signs of flu-like symptoms such as fever, chills and rashes. As it progresses, it can cause ulcers and lesions in the skin, which, when left untreated, can be potentially fatal. The disease can also cause complications with the heart, lungs, urinary tract as well as pregnancy.
23206	Symptoms of Sandfly Fever includes fever, headache, chills, shivering, muscle pains and spasms, join pains, flushing, blood shot eyes and flu-like symptoms.
23207	The most common and severe type of Sandhoff disease occurs during infancy, particularly at age 3-6 months old, at which time development slows and muscles weaken. As Sandhoff disease progresses, affected infants develop seizures, hearing loss, vision impairment, mental retardation, and paralysis. Cherry-red spot, a type of eye abnormality, is a characteristic sign of Sandhoff disease. In some cases, affected infants show bone abnormalities and/or enlarged organs. Other types of Sandhoff disease are relatively rare. Symptoms may appear in childhood, adolescence or adulthood, but are often milder than those in infantile Sandhoff disease. As in the infantile form, common symptoms include motor weakness, mental deterioration, speech problems, ataxia (loss of muscle coordination) and other related problems.
23208	Symptoms of Sanfilippo syndrome typically appear after the first year of life. At ages 2 and 6, affected children usually begin to show a decline in learning ability. While growth will appear normal in the first few years of life, affected children will always have a lower-than-average height. Growth and development problems are followed by mental deterioration. In addition, affected children generally have coarse facial features, distinctly full lips, heavy eyebrows that meet in the middle of the face above the nose, as well as stiff joints that don't fully extend. Other symptoms include walking difficulties and diarrhea.
23209	Children born with Santavuori disease develop normally at age 8-18 months. But shortly after, they begin to physically and mentally regress. Affected children will soon lose motor and speech skills, and develop blindness through optic athropy. Neurological symptoms in the form of epilepsy and myoclonic seizures (among others) also appear. Children with Santavuori disease typically survive up to 9 to 11 years old.
23210	In general, SAPHO syndrome disorders share common radiologic, clinical, and pathologic characteristics, all involving the bone, skin, and joints. Classic presentations of SAPHO syndrome can be summarized by its eponym, meaning: Synovitis (or inflammation of the joint lining), Acne (usually in the face and upper back), Pustulosis (inflammatory skin condition), Hyperostosis (abnormal excessive growth of bone), and Osteitis (bone inflammation).
23211	Sarcoidosis is a systemic disorder that can affect virtually every organ in the body. However, granulomas more frequently occur in the lymph nodes or lungs. Symptoms may appear suddenly, but usually occur gradually. The severity of the disease varies from mild asymptomatic cases to a chronic potentially fatal condition. Common signs of Sarcoidosis are fatigue, weight loss, lack of energy, arthralgia, blurry vision, dry eyes, shortness of breath, aches and pains, skin lesions, and a dry cough. Cutaneous symptoms may come in the form of rashes, small bulbs (noduli), lupus pernio, or erytheme nodosum. If Sarcoidosis affects the kidneys, liver, heart, or brain, more severe manifestations may appear.
23212	Pulmonary sarcoidosis presents with granulomas (small lumps or bumps), which often heal and resolve on their own. However, if symptomatic granulomas do not disappear, the inflammation can cause scarring and further damage in the affected tissues. If untreated, pulmonary sarcoidosis can progress to pulmonary fibrosis, a condition that distorts the lung structure, leading to breathing difficulties. Other complications can come in the form of a lung disease known as bronchiectasis, a condition in which the air tubes become sites for infection. In most cases, pulmonary sarcoidosis is asymptomatic, and affected individuals usually remain unaware of their condition. However, in the long term, pulmonary sarcoidosis can lead to a loss of lung volume (i.e. amount of air the lungs can hold) as well as abnormal stiffness in the lungs. In addition, pulmonary sarcoidosis can present with shortness of breath, persistent cough, skin rashes (particularly in the face, shins, or arms), eye inflammation, weight loss, night sweats, fatigue, and fever.
23213	Bone cancer patients usually feel pain in the affected bone. They may have weak bones that easily fracture, swelled and tender joints, fatigue, fever, unintended weight loss, and anemia.
23214	Granulocytic sarcoma can affect any organ or tissue in the body, but they most commonly occur in the gums and the skin. When affecting the skin, signs of granulocytic sarcoma include raised, violaceous, non-tender nodules or plaques composed of myeloblasts. When affecting the gums, the tumor manifests with swollen and painful gums that bleed easily during tooth brushing or other minor trauma. Granulocytic sarcoma may also appear in the small intestine, lymph nodes, epidural sites, mediastinum, ovaries, and uterus. Symptoms vary according to the tumor's specific location. In some cases, affected patients may be asymptomatic. In extremely rare cases, the central nervous system is involved, taking the form of meningeal leukemia (i.e. leukemic cells invading the subarachnoid space).
23215	Sarcosinemia is a relatively benign condition, and affected patients are frequently asymptomatic.
23216	Also called Komuragueri syndrome, this disorder is characterized by painful muscle spasms, diarrhea, alopecia, secondary skeletal abnormalities, and endocrinopathy with amenorrhoea. Symptoms typically present at a very young age, usually between the sixth and fifteenth year of life. At the onset, the disease manifests with spasms in the leg muscle as well as baldness (or alopecia). The spasms can be extremely painful, and occur frequently with progressive severity. In severe cases, the spasms result in abnormal posturing of the afflicted limbs. As the illness progresses, the spasms spread towards the trunk muscles, the pectoral girdle, the masseters, and eventually to the temporal muscles. Diarrhea usually presents in the first 2 to 3 years as a result of intolerance to carbohydrates or other complex sugars. Endocrinopathy may also occur, including amenorrhea and hypoplasia of the uterus. Children with Satoyoshi syndrome typically stop growing between the ages of ten and twelve. Although Satoyoshi syndrome is not necessarily fatal, the resulting complications (such as malnourishment and/or respiratory failure) can cause the affected individual to die.
23217	According to Darold Treffert a researcher, almost all savants have remarkable memory though sometime may have autistic characteristics. There are also obvious neurological abnomarlities.
23218	A classic sign of Say Meyer syndrome is trigonocephaly, which pertains to a certain skull deformity wherein the skull is sharply angled in front of the ears, giving a triangular appearance. In addition to trigonocephaly, Say Meyer syndrome also presents with head and neck symptoms in the form of craniosynostosis affecting the metopic suture. Additional symptoms of Say Meyer syndrome include closed posterior fontanel, premature synostosis of the lambdoid suture, frontal vertical ridging, involvement of the sagittal suture, appearance of a narrow forehead, and hypotelorism in eyes. In some cases, affected patients show a highly arched palate, clinodactyly and ventricular septal defect. Impairment in growth, motor function, and mental state has also been observed.
23219	Classic presentations of scabies are the appearance of an intensely itchy rash and superficial burrows. These symptoms typically appear after 4-6 weeks from the infestation. An infected individual may have already been contagious for that period before a definite diagnosis was made. The mite that causes scabies often burrow in the webs of fingers, wrists, elbows, armpits, female areolas, male genitalia, along the belt line, and on the lower part of the buttocks. In some cases, a tiny mite is visible at the end of a burrow. The burrows often appear as tiny, barely visible skin bumps on the affected areas. As the infection worsens, these small bumps may become reddish and more intense. In some cases, the characteristic rash is secondarily infected as a result of persistent scratching breaking the skin and opening it up to other infections. In addition, widespread rashes and thick scaling may occur in people with reduced immunity, in which case the infection is called Norwegian scabies.
23220	Children with scabies first experience itchiness in the skin. Wounds and sores soon develop due to scratching.
23221	Individuals with SCAD deficiency typically suffer from hypoglycemia (low blood sugar), vomiting, lethargy (low energy), poor feeding, weight loss, growth impairment, and failure to thrive. Affected infants usually show hypotonia (or poor muscle tone), developmental defects, seizures, and microcephaly (small head size). These symptoms may be triggered by periods of fasting or by exposure to viral infections and other illnesses. In some cases, SCAD deficiency does not manifest with symptoms until the infected individual reaches adulthood, at which time muscle weakness and wasting occur. There are also known cases where affected individuals remain asymptomatic for most of their life and are never diagnosed.
23222	Affected individuals feel a burning sensation involving in the tongue, lips, gums, palate, throat, or most areas of the mouth. They may also feel like they are having a dry mouth, sore mouth, a bitter or metallic taste, or a tingling sensation in the mouth or on the tip of the tongue.
23223	SCARF syndrome presents with premature fusion of skull bones, loose skin, ambiguous genitalia, skeletal abnormalities, psychomotor impairment, mental retardation, and facial abnormalities, among others. Affected individuals may also have abnormally placed or small nipples, excessive skin folds on the neck, a high nose bridge, a high palate, hyperxtensible joints, a short neck, a small penis, a small jaw, reduced abdominal muscles, a long upper lip groove, droopy eyelids, sparse hair on the scalp, dental deformities, enlarged liver, and abnormally shaped vertebrae.
23224	Children with scarlet fever, experience a red rashes, red lines in skin folds, strawberry-like red and bumpy appearance of the tongue, and fever of 101 degrees Fahrenheit or higher, which is often accompanied with chills. Patients usually have sore throats, enlarged lymph nodes, and fever during the early stages of scarlatina.
23225	At the onset, scarlet fever presents with fever, headaches, fatigue, sore throat, vomiting, nausea, abdominal pain, flushed face, paleness around the mouth, a rapid pulse rate (tachycardia), enlarged lymph nodes (lymphadenopathy), forchheimer, and a characteristic bright red tongue that has been described as "strawberry" in appearance. Within 12-48 hours from the onset of the fever, a characteristic rash appears. This rash is usually fine, reddish in color, and rough in texture. It first appears at the chest, armpits, and behind the ears, and tends to be more severe in skin folds. Even after the rash disappears, pastia lines remain. Three to four days after the onset, the rash begins to fade. The affected skin area then starts to peel. Scarlet fever can lead to chronic complications, including acute septic problems (e.g. ear/sinus infections, pneumonia, meningitis, etc.) and immune-related complications (e.g. rheumatic fever, erythema nodosum, acute glomerulonephritis, etc.).
23226	Schamberg's disease is a type of progressive purpura, or a purplish discoloration of the skin that results when blood leaks from the vessels near the skin surface. The characteristic discoloration of Schamberg's disease resembles flat, smooth, red-brown patches (due to iron overflowing from the blood vessels). In some cases, these areas can be quite itchy and uncomfortable. The patches may persist for several weeks, and may in fact regress over time.
23227	In general, all types of mucopolysaccharidosis can lead to permanent and progressive cellular damage that impairs the physical abilities, appearance, organ/system functioning, and mental development of affected individuals. Scheie syndrome, also known as MPS I S, typically manifests at age 5, but most commonly diagnosed after the 10th year of life. Children with Scheie syndrome have normal intelligence with some mild learning disabilities. In some cases, psychiatric problems may occur. Vision may be significantly impaired due to retinal degeneration, glaucoma, and clouded corneas. Other symptoms of Scheie syndrome include joint stiffness, carpal tunnel syndrome (or some other form of nerve compression), deformities in the hands and feet, a short neck, and aortic valve disease. Obstructive airway disease and sleep apnea have also been known to occur. Individuals with Scheie syndrome can survive well into adulthood.
23228	Symptoms includes wrong posture, rigidity of the thoracic vertebrae, curving of the patient's back.
23229	Symptoms includes dementia, aphasia, changes in personality, seizures, difficulty in focusing, instable balance, incontinence, general weakness, vomiting, speech impairment and reoccuring headache.
23230	Infants born with Schinzel-Giedion syndrome typically suffer from severe mental retardation, growth impairment, and developmental delays. Other symptoms of this complex genetic disorder include: major facial defects in the form of midface retraction; obstruction of the kidneys leading to hydronephrosis; skeletal deformities; excessive bodily hair or hypertrichosis; development of seizures; abnormalities in EEG; and failure to thrive. In addition, affected babies may also have heart problems, respiratory difficulties, and genital abnormalities.
23231	This chronic infection manifests with abdominal pain, diarrhea, cough, increased eosinophil granulocyte, fatigue, fever, as well as spleen and liver enlargement (hepatosplenomegaly). In some cases, schistosomiasis causes lesions in the central nervous system. If the infection persists, it can lead to granulomatous reactions and fibrosis in the affected organs. Complications include colonic polyposis with bloody diarrhea and portal hypertension. In addition, cystitis and ureteritis with hematuria may develop, which can potentially progress to cancer of the bladder. Pulmonary hypertension, glomerulonephritis, and central nervous system lesions may appear.
23231	Common symptoms of Schistosomiasis are skin rashes, skin is itchy, fever, chills, cough, muscle aches, hives, liver symptoms, fever, headaches, pain in the abdomen, melena, dry cough. Paralysis, fits and swelling of spinal cord can also occur if there eggs in the spinal cord. Gastrointestinal symptoms also happen lie diarrhea, bladder infection symptoms like cystitis.
23232	A characteristic sign of Schizencephaly is the appearance of a cerebrospinal fluid-filled cleft, which is lined by gray matter and extends throughout the cerebral hemisphere, starting from the ependyma (ventricular surface) to the brain's periphery (pial surface). Clinical symptoms vary, but typical presentations include hemiparesis, seizures, and developmental deficits. The severity of symptoms also varies according to the extent of the brain affected with the abnormality. The clefts may occur unilaterally or bilaterally. If occurring in both hemispheres (bilateral), Schizencephaly leads to delayed language comprehension, developmental impairment, and corticospinal defects. If affecting only one hemisphere (unilateral), the disease causes a weakness on only one side of the body, with affected patients having average or near-average intelligence. In general, individuals with Schizencephaly suffer from varying severities of mental retardation, microcephaly, hemiparesis/quadriparesis, and reduced muscle tone.
23233	Among the symptoms of schizoaffective disorder is loss of coordination with reality combined with mania, depression and other emotional disturbances.
23234	Schizophrenic patients suffer from an impaired sense of reality, which may take the form of paranoia, auditory hallucinations, delusions, disorganized speech, and confusion or muddled thinking. Patients with schizophrenia usually have severe social or occupational dysfunction. Initial symptoms typically manifest in young adulthood and frequently persist throughout the patient's lifetime.
23236	Schmidt syndrome typically manifests with hypothyroidism, diabetes mellitus type 1, and Addison's disease. Less common manifestations include vitiligo and hypogonadism.
23238	Rage and panic when the school bus arrives Nightmares happens mostly during Sunday evenings
23239	Symptoms produced by Schwannoma, malignant depend on the actual location of the tumor. However, general manifestations may include the following: * Pain depending on the location of the tumor * Bladder dysfunctions, which can be presented in different forms like urinary incontinence, bladder distention or bladder infections. * Bowel dysfunction or symptoms produced due to some malfunctions in the digestive system. It may take the form of diarrhea, stomach pain, constipation, flatulence and any other symptoms affecting the digestive tract of the individual. * Numbness or loss of sensation usually around or in the exact location of the tumor due to the damaged or diseases nerves. * Abnormal nerve sensations for example pins-and-needles, tingling, pricking, or burning. This is due to nerve damage caused by pressure or nerve entrapment. * Weakness may occur due to numbness or abnormal nerve sensations in the affected area.
23240	A person suffering from Schwannomatosis will have Schwannomas, a kind of tumor stemming from the Schwann cells. Most likely, multiple Schwannomas will appear and develop usually on cranial, spinal, and peripheral nerves. These presentations will be coupled with chronic pain and intermittent tingling, numbness, and weakness in the area where the tumor is located. About 1/3 of patients exhibit the presence of segmental Schwannomatosis or the presence of tumors limited to one area of the body like the leg, arm or spine. In some cases, vestibular Schwannomas are present.
23241	Individuals with Sciatica often suffer the following symptoms: * Severe pain arising from the back down to the buttocks and down to the back of the legs. * Numbness * Muscular weakness * Impediment of movement or control of the leg
23242	Some of the symptoms of Scimitar syndrome include: * Cyanosis; also known as blue skin or purple skin * Shortness of breath * Respiratory distress * Heart murmur * Hypoxia * Pulmonary hypertension * Grunting
23243	Symptoms include conjunctiva, redness of the sclera, pain in the eye that radiates to the temple, tearing and photopobia and visual acuity.
23244	Symptoms includes the thickening and tightening of the skin.
23245	Most of the time, initial signs and symptoms presents in the skin. The following are some of the skin symptoms of Scleroderma: * Skin hardening and thickening * Shiny skin * Reddish and scaly skin * Hyper pigmentation * Finger swelling * Sclerodactyly which is defined as the hard, shiny appearance of the fingers due to excessive connective tissue build-up. * Blood vessels may tend to become visible * Painful ulcers on the fingers or toes * Calcinosis or formation of calcium deposits in any soft tissue especially near the elbows, knees or other joints. Symptoms in other Organs * Myopathy or muscle weakness * Non-specific joint pains which may cause discomfort in tendons or muscles and can lead to arthritis * Decreased ability of the lungs to transfer gases (diffusion capacity) based on pulmonary function testing. * Inflammation of the esophagus ( reflux esophagitis) * Renal involvement may include high blood pressure presenting acute organ damage evidences, high rennin levels, blood in the urine, protein loss in urine, accumulation of waste products in the urine as a result of kidney failure, destruction of red blood cells. * Cold sensitivity
23246	Limited scleroderma has a distinct set of characteristics that include calcinosis, raynaud's phenomenon, esophageal dysfunction, sclerodactyly, and telangiectasia.
23248	Spinal curving Spine is curved sideways Body posture is sideways One shoulder is raised higher than the other Clothes are not hanging properly Local ligament pain and muscular aches
23249	Symptoms of scoliosis with unilateral unsegmented bar is similar to general symptoms of scoliosis such as the following: * Uneven musculature on one side of the spine * Uneven hip and shoulder levels * Uneven size or location of breast in females suffering from scoliosis with unilateral unsegmented bar * Unequal distance between body and arms * Cosmetic deformity * Continued low back Pain due to spine curving * Sore muscles in the affected spine area
23250	Symptoms includes rashes, diarrhea, flushing, excessive sweating, vomiting, burning sensation in the mouth area, swelling of the mouth, abdominal pain and metallic taste.
23251	Animals infected with Scrapie will experience excessive itching sensation; medically referred to as pruritus. Due to this itchy feeling, animals will suddenly scratch their fleece against surfaces of rocks, trees or fences, which will eventually result to massive scraping off. Infected animals will also present excessive lip-smacking and strange gaits. In some cases, convulsive collapse will be manifested in some animals afflicted with Scrapie.
23252	Symptoms of scratch dermatitis itching on a certain area, scaly or leathery texture of the affected skin, rough and raised patches that will grow darker than the rest of the skin.
23253	Affected individuals have lumps or swelling in the scrotum. They may also feel local pain or tenderness in the affected area.
23254	Symptoms includes fever, headache, muscle pain, coughing, and gastrointestinal symptoms like abdominal cramps and pain and vomiting.
23255	Some of the most common bleeding and dental symptoms of Scurvy include: * Dark, purplish spots on skin particularly in the legs known as liver spot formation. * Bleeding in finger tips * Appearance of bruises * Persons with scurvy tend to bruise easily * Weak capillaries * Bleeding from all mucous membranes and internal bleeding * Bleeding from old scars * Nose bleeding * Bleeding of gums * Swollen and spongy gums which may lead to tooth loss Other symptoms may include tiredness, irritability, aches and pains, paleness, sunken eyes, opening of healed scars and disjointing of knitted bone fractures.
23256	Headache Vertigo Nausea Pale, cool, moist skin Muscular relaxation Elevated flow of saliva Features are sunken Disagreeable delusion of the senses of smell and touch
23257	Symptoms vary among people with SAD. For those who get depressed during the cold months, they tend to experience a hype of sad emotions and seek comfort in eating foods such as chocolate, oversleeping and weight gain. Meanwhile during the summer season they experience the opposite: loss of appetite high energy levels and weight loss.
23258	For Fall and Winter SAD are fatigue, depression, anxiety, hopelessness, lack of energy, withdrawal from social life, sleeping too much, lack of interest in activities once enjoyed, change in appetite, weight gain, hard up in processing and concentrating information. For Summer and Spring SAD symptoms are anxiety, insomnia, irritability, agitation, loss of weight, lack of appetite and elevated sex drive. For Reverse SAD symptoms are elevated social activity, hyperactivity and uncontrolled enthusiasm which are out of proportion to the situation.
23259	The cysts are usually white or yellow. Some cysts have central openings that may produce a thick, and cheesy material. Rarely do epidermoid cysts become infected. But when they do, certain symptoms may occur such a thick, yellow material drains from the cyst and may have a foul odor; and a redness, swelling, and tenderness around the cyst.
23260	Among the common symptoms of seborrheic dermatitis include yellow or white scales that may attach to the hair shaft, skin flakes or dandruff, patchy scaling or thick crusts on the scalp, itching or soreness and red, greasy skin covered with flaky white or yellow scales.
23261	Individuals suffering from Seckel Syndrome may present some or all of the following symptoms: * Low birth weight in newborns * Head smaller than the average size for the person's age and sex (microcephaly) * More than half of the patients suffering from Seckel syndrome exhibit lower than 50 IQ scores. * Pelvis and elbow dislocations * Reduced levels of white and red blood cells and also platelets (pancytopenia). * Dwarfism or short stature * Absence of one or more testes in the scrotum (cryptorchidism) * Extraordinarily large eyes * Small chin * Low ears * Abnormal facial symmetry * Failure to grow * Nose that looks like a beak * Club foot * Absence of some teeth * Joint defects * Sparse hair * Trident hands * Sweet disposition
23262	Affected individuals experience a preceding unusual sensation or emotion such as a sudden sense of unprovoked fear, a deja vu experience, a rising sensation in the abdomen, and the sudden occurrence of a strange odor or taste. Signs and symptoms may include loss of awareness of surroundings, staring, lip-smacking, repeated swallowing, and making picking motions with the fingers. After an episode, the patient may be confused and unable to recall the events that occurred during the seizure.
23263	The signs and symptoms of this disorder are difficulties in understanding language syntax and questions, slow coordination with conversations, having trouble explaining events and expressing ideas, as well as problems understanding jokes and context clues.
23264	Symptoms of Senile Purpura includes bruising that is usually purple in color and found at the back of the hands, forearm bruises and discoloration or the skin after the bruise fades.
23265	For babies born with congenital hearing loss, the primary symptom is observed when the baby fails to respond to sounds. No baby babbling or baby noises. For individuals with sensorineural hearing loss: * Sounds heard are quieter, distorted and less clear * High tones are less perceptible * Difficulty in understanding spoken words when a background noise is present * Sounds of the letters s, f, and z are not heard * Ringing, bussing, whistling, hissing and other noise are heard when actually those sounds are not existent in the environment. * Dizziness and loss of balance (vertigo)
23266	The following are signs and symptoms of a person with Sensory integration dysfunction: ò Withdraw when being touched ò Oversensitive to odors ò Lack creativity and variety in play ò Most of the time they are easily distracted ò Bizarrely high or low activity level ò Obvious awkwardness and noticeable carelessness ò They tend to be very impulsive and spontaneous ò Trouble in shifting from one situation to another ò lack of ability to loosen up, slow down or calm down ò inferiority complex or poor self perception ò speech, language and motor skills delay ò academic achievement hindrances
23267	Sensory neuropathy can produce tingling, numbness or loss of sensation and most of the time pain. Pain associated with sensory neuropathy can be described as: ò Pins and needles sensation ò Abnormal feeling as if you are wearing a sock or glove that is actually not present ò Burning sensation ò Coldness or freezing sensation ò Feeling similar to electric shock ò Excessive sensitivity to touch The sensation may suddenly develop; in some cases bizarre sensation may gradually progress reaching to even years. The severity of the pain may differ from one individual to another.
23268	The symptoms of sensory neuropathy include numbness or loss of sensation, tingling, burning, coldness and intense sensitivity to touch. These sensations may be present without warning or sometimes in reaction to outside stimuli. Intermittent neuropathic pain may resemble to an electric shock.
23269	Among the symptoms of separation anxiety is the need of a child to be accompanied by someone before going to sleep, the constant need to be with someone and be overly dependent on others. Some children often succumb to depression.
23270	Generally, sepsis is marked by signs indicating acute inflammation all throughout the body combined with fever and elevated white blood cell count. Common symptoms that may be present include: ò Shivering and chills accompanied by evident rise in body temperature ò Muscle aches and pain ò Rapid heart rate usually more than 100 beats per minute ò Inappropriately low blood pressure (hypotension) ò Cyanosis or blue skin ò Shortness of breath ò Urine output less than 500 ml within a 24 hour period ò Excessive headache
23271	Affected individuals experience fever with chills, severe pain in the affected joint when moved, and swelling and warmth in the area of the affected joint
23272	Initial indications of septic shock are confusion and decreased mental alertness, may include chilling, fast increase in temperature; warm, flushed skin; fast, pounding pulse; extreme rapid breathing; and blood pressure rises and falls. Urine output decreases and severe cases several organ fails.
23273	Among the main symptoms of septicaemia are rapid breathing, palpitations, chills and fever. Hemorrhage may also take place during advanced stages.
23274	Symptoms includes fever, chilling and hypothermia, rapid breathing,low blood pressure, blood clotting, and occurrence of red spots on the skin.
23275	Septo-optic dysplasia presents the following symptoms: ò Blindness in one or both eyes ò Dilated pupils when exposed to light ò Rapid and involuntary movement of the eyes (nystagmus) ò Inward and outward movement away of the eye ò Low muscle tone (Hypotonia) ò Hypoglycemia ò Jaundice ò Unusually small penis (micropenis) for a boy patient ò Seizures ò Developmental delay due to visual impairment
23276	The symptoms observed in a person suffering from Serious Digitalis Intoxication are the manifestations of the adverse effects brought about by digoxin (digitalis). This may include some or all of the following: ò Loss of appetite ò Nausea ò Depression ò Blurred vision ò Diarrhea ò Vomiting ò Visual instability (yellow-green halos) ò Confusion ò Drowsiness ò Nightmares ò Dizziness ò Fatigue or feeling of weariness Less occurring clinical symptoms include: ò Amnesia ò Delirium ò Acute psychosis ò Heart rhythm instability ò Heart conduction irregularities and malfunctions.
23277	Symptoms of the medical condition may mimic those of the rheumatoid arthritis and thus may cause fever, chilling, general weakness, vomiting, pain in the joints and arms.
23278	Patients often feel restless and have rapid heartbeat. They may also experience muscle rigidity and seizures.
23279	Symptoms may appear within four to fourteen days after exposure to the triggering substance. The following are general symptoms of serum sickness: ò Rashes as a result of severe skin reaction ò Fever ò Joint pain ò Swollen lymph node ò Extremely low blood pressure ò Enlargement of the spleen ò Shock ò Blood and protein presence in the urine as demonstrated by means of urine analysis ò Breathing difficulty ò Changes in vision in some cases
23280	Symptoms of Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome usually appear within two to ten days subsequent to exposure. Common initial symptoms may be presented as: ò Flu-like symptoms including the following: i) Fever ii) Muscle pain iii) Fatigue iv) Cough v) Sore throat vi) Chills or shivering vii) Headache ò Lower respiratory symptoms that may appear after about 3-7 days after exposure i) Breathing difficulty ii) Shortness of breath iii) Dry non-productive cough iv) Pneumonia
23281	There are a lot of symptoms of SARS and here are the most common symptoms flu-like symptoms, high fever, chills, shivering, rigor, headache, malaise, body and muscle aches, mild respiratory symptoms and diarrhea.
23282	Individuals who are suffering with severe brain injury have closed eyes. Their limbs do not respond to any stimuli except for reflex movements.
23283	Symptoms of Severe combined immunodeficiency become noticeable during the first year. The most common symptoms may include: ò Several serious and life threatening infections appear which are not easily treated and most of the time do not respond to treatment. This may include: pneumonia, sepsis and meningitis to name a few. ò Chronic skin infections ò Diarrhea ò Infection of the liver ò Yeast infections usually in the mouth and diaper area.
23284	Symptoms include the inability of the person to gain satisfaction from the sexual activity,
23285	Symptoms includes the occurrence of headaches that is usually throbbing or stabbing or tightening of the head and neck muscles just before or during the orgasms.
23286	Symptoms includes impotence, unusual dryness of the vagina, painful sexual intercourse, sexual and problems anxiety.
23287	Sezary syndrome usually develops slowly within many years. Initial symptoms usually appear on the skin including skin redness, itching and often dry and dark patches on the skin. Other symptoms may include: ò Leukemia ò Enlarged lymph nodes ò Dystrophic nails ò Hair loss or balding (alopecia) ò Swelling
23288	Symptoms of Sezary's lymphoma primarily appear on the skin at the onset of the disease. This may include some of the following: ò Widespread erythroderma which is characterized by reddening or scaling of the skin almost covering the entirety of the skin. But there are also cases, wherein reddening or scaling only appears in patches. ò Disease of the lymph nodes which is often presented by swollen, enlarged or inflamed lymph nodes. ò Presence of nonconforming and strange T-cells in the peripheral blood. ò Enlargement of the liver corresponding with enlargement of the spleen (hepatosplenomegaly).
23289	Known symptoms are irritability, changes in eating patterns, failure to thrive, lethargy, seizures, vomiting, tense or swelling fontanels, increased size of the head, altered respirations and diluted pupils. Symptoms like fractures of the ribs and vertebrae may also be related to SBS.
23291	Sharp syndrome often present similar symptoms with other disorders like polymyositis, systemic lupus erythematosus, and systemic scleroderma. This is the reason why most of the time Sharp syndrome is often considered as an overlap syndrome. Symptoms of Sharp Syndrome include the following: ò Anorexia or loss of appetite ò Weight loss ò Fever ò Paleness ò Nausea ò Vomiting ò Diarrhea ò Delirium ò Headache ò Weakness ò Tenosynovitis or inflammation of the tendon sheath marked by severe pain, tenderness, swelling and lump formation ò Thickening and hardening of the skin and connective tissue ò Discoloration of the fingers, toes and sometimes other extremities (Raynaud's phenomenon) ò Muscle inflammation ò Joint pain and swelling ò Difficulty in swallowing ò Pleuritic chest pain ò Rash ò Baldness
23292	The following are the symptoms of Sheehan syndrome: ò Acute physical and mental reaction to reduced circulation (acute shock) ò Weakness or lack of energy ò Breast milk never comes "in" ò Low blood sugar levels (hypoglycemic crisis) ò Absence of menstrual bleeding or menstrual irregularity ò Paleness ò Loss of pubic or armpit hair ò Vaginal mucosa atrophy ò Infundibular artery spasm ò Pituitary necrosis ò Pituitary thrombosis ò Dry skin ò High cholesterol
23293	Symptoms of shellfish allergy include swelling of the lips, tingling of the mouth, abdominal pain, diarrhea and even vomiting, wheezing and nasal congestions. In severe conditions, anaphylaxis may occur causing the constriction of the airways making it extremely difficult to breath along with severe drop in the person's blood pressure.
23294	Symptoms of Shigellosis may vary from mild abdominal discomfort to advanced dysentery. In the presence of this condition the following symptoms can be observed 15 to 20 hours after infection: ò Abdominal cramps ò Diarrhea ò Vomiting ò Fever ò Stools may come with pus, blood or mucus ò Inability or difficulty in emptying the bowel during defecation (tenesmus)
23295	Affected individuals experience tenderness, soreness, or pain along the inner part of the lower leg, and mild swelling.
23296	The initial symptoms of Shingles are very common and may appear to be non-specific including general feeling of discomfort and uneasiness (malaise), fever, and headache. After hours or days, the following symptoms will start to manifest: ò Itching ò Sensations of burning pain ò Chills ò Sensitive to heat, cold, light or touch (Paresthesia) ò Persistent local pain in the affected skin area ò Quick stabbing pain ò Tingling, numbing, stinging or throbbing sensation After the initial phase of Shingles, the following symptoms will begin to be obvious: ò Appearance of the distinguishing skin rash usually on the torso but also may be present on the face, eyes and other parts of the body. ò Initially the rash will look like the first presentation of hives; subsequently the rash will change appearance forming small blisters that erupts and crust over usually with the combining presence of fever and malaise.
23297	Symptoms of shock depend on the type of shock experienced by a person. But the most common and general symptoms include the following: ò Anxiety and restlessness and altered mental state brought about by decreased blood flow in body tissues and consequent hypoxia. ò Rapid, weak and thready pulse ò Cold, clammy skin and usually mottled skin ò Rapid and shallow breathing pattern ò Excessively low body temperature ò Feeling of thirst and dry mouth ò Dilated pupils ò Distended jugular veins ò Fever ò Increased cardiac output
23298	Individuals with short bowel syndrome may experience the following symptoms: ò Pain in the abdominal region ò Diarrhea and sometimes oily, sticky, and foul-smelling stool (steatorrhea) ò Fluid retention ò Feelings of exhaustion or fatigue ò Remarkable weight loss ò Bloated sensation ò Dehydration ò Heart burn ò Abdominal cramps
23299	The most common complaint of persons with Short QT Syndrome is unexplained palpitations, irregular heartbeats and loss of consciousness. The characteristic sign of Short QT Syndrome is the presence of very short QT interval on electrocardiogram (ECG). Some cases of Short QT Syndrome remain to be asymptomatic leading to unexplained or sudden death.
23300	Short rib-polydactyly syndrome is a rare genetic disorder marked by the following characteristic symptoms: ò Short stature ò Short ribs ò Bell-shaped torso ò Short measurements of the supposed to be long bones; femur and humerus ò Some cases may show presence of polydactyly, which is the condition of having extra fingers and toes. ò Presence of internal organ abnormalities at birth
23301	Affected individuals have disproportionate body sizes in which some of their body parts smaller than the average size whiel other are average sized or above-average. They may also have inhibited bone development. Other individuals have proportionately small body parts.
23302	Symptoms includes pain in the shoulder, severe weakness and stiffness of the shoulder.
23303	Symptoms includes swelling, pain, tenderness in the shoulder.
23304	The manifestations of Shprintzen syndrome generally differ even within the members of the same family. Usually, it affects many parts of the body. However, there are still characteristic symptoms that may suggest the presence of the syndrome. This includes congenital heart defects, an opening in the roof of the mouth (oftentimes cleft palate but other palate defects may exist), autism or other learning insufficiencies, facial feature discrepancies, periodic viral or fungal infections due to immune system problems, weak muscles, short stature, spine curvature, and tapered fingers. Some cases may also be prone to kidney abnormalities, noteworthy feeding difficulties and an increased possibility of developing mental illnesses.
23305	In the initial stage, symptoms of Shulman-upshaw syndrome start with malaise, headache, fever and sometimes diarrhea. As the condition leads to a more advanced stage, clots begin to form within blood vessels leading to the consumption of the platelets. This will then result to noticeable bruises and in rare cases spontaneous bleeding may occur. The most common site of bleeding is from the gums or nose. Bruises will take the form of purpura; large bruises may also develop known as ecchymoses. Other indicative symptoms of Shulman-upshaw syndrome include: ò Strange behavior, altered mental status, headache and even stroke ò Renal failure ò Fever ò Anemia, jaundice and characteristic blood film It should also be noted that symptoms of Shulman-upshaw syndrome may circulate and fluctuate.
23306	Shwachman syndrome presents a wide range of abnormalities and symptoms. The following are some of the main characteristics of Shwachman syndrome: ò Exocrine pancreatic dysfunction ò Low levels of circulating blood cells ò Short stature ò Abnormal rib cage bone development ò Abnormal bone development in the arms and legs ò Abnormalities in the liver like abnormal enlargement of the liver ò Growth delay in particular bones ò Low red blood cell counts ò Low platelet counts ò Progressive marrow failure ò Other skeletal abnormalities
23307	The primary characteristics of Shwachman-diamond syndrome include: ò Inadequate production of some types of white blood cells due to bone marrow problems (Thrombocytopenia and Neutropenia) ò Difficulties in digesting food because the cells of the pancreas do not function properly ò Skeletal abnormalities predominantly in the hip, leg bones, femur and rib cage seen through X-ray ò Enlarged liver and sometimes chronic liver disease ò Bone lesions ò Infants with the syndrome often present diarrhea and oily and foul-smelling stool.
23309	Shy-Drager syndrome is characterized by the following symptoms: ò Dizziness or fainting when rising or following a period of standing still ò Impotence or inability to get or maintain erection firm enough for a man to have intercourse. ò Difficulty in swallowing ò Loss of sweating on any part of the body ò Loss of control of bowels or bladder ò Decreased or blurred vision ò Muscle stiffness, which causes difficulty in bending arms or legs ò Stooped, slump over or unstable posture ò Gait changes ò Loss of balance ò Shuffling ò Muscle aches and pains ò Loss of fine motor skills ò Sleep-related breathing difficulties in some cases
23310	A person with Sialadenitis may produce some or all of the following symptoms: ò Enlarged salivary gland ò Tender salivary gland ò Painful lump in the cheek or under the chin ò A foul-tasting pus discharge from the salivary duct into the mouth ò In more severe cases, fever, chills and generally sick feeling is often present.
23311	Symptoms of Sialidosis may be present at birth or develop within the first year of life. The symptoms of Sialidosis may include: ò Abrupt and impulsive involuntary muscle contractions ò Appearance of red spots in the eyes known as cherry-red macules ò Excessive swelling throughout the whole body immediately noticed at birth ò Coarse, facial features like puffy eyelids, flat nasal bridge, gum enlargement and excessive size of the tongue ò In some cases, infants may be born with skeletal malformation like dislocated hips ò Unable to coordinate voluntary movement ò Impaired vision ò Seizures and tremors ò Liver and spleen enlargement that causes abdominal swelling ò Failure to thrive ò Lack of muscle tone ò Recurrent respiratory infections
23312	When a person has sicca, his eyes and mouth are extremely dry. This condition is caused by an obstruction of the glands that produce fluids to keep them wet, such as lachrymal glands for the tears and salivary glands.
23313	Sick building syndrome is presented by recurring headache, migraine, and allergies a person experiences while at the office.
23314	The condition may have intermittent signs and symptoms such as fatigue, dizziness or lightheadedness, fainting or near-fainting, shortness of breath, chest pains, trouble sleeping, confusion or difficulty remembering things, and palpitations.
23315	Persons with sickle cell anemia experiences bouts of severe pain in any part of the body like chest, stomach or legs. This is experienced because the sickle cells block the blood flowing in these areas of the body. Other symptoms include feeling of tiredness or fatigue and difficulty in fighting infections. Delay in growth development is also observed I n some patients with Sickle cell anemia. When a person with sickle cell anemia acquires acute chest syndrome; severe chest and abdominal pain, breathing difficulties, fever and cough is usually present.
23316	Symptoms of sideroblastic anemia, autosomal might include: ò Enlarged spleen ò Liver disease or sometimes enlargement of the liver ò Pallor ò Weakness or sometimes feelings associated with fatigue ò Pigmentation in the skin ò Anemia or the decrease hemoglobin concentration in the blood ò Microcytosis or the condition marked by decreased mean cell volume of red blood cells
23319	The symptoms of silent stroke are almost left unnoticed unless the disease progresses into a life-threatening situation. In some cases, symptoms for hypertension include pain in the nape due to the swelling of the nerves.
23320	Symptoms of silicosis are often noticeable only ten years after exposure including: ò Rapid breathing or shortness of breath subsequent to physical exertion ò Tiredness or fatigue ò Dry cough in combination with hoarse throat that is often persistent and severe ò Breathing pattern changes ò Fever ò Chest pain ò Regular dark shallow gaps in nails that will eventually lead to crack ò Loss of appetite Change in structure and function of the right ventricle of the heart (Cor Pulmonale), respiratory deficiencies and cyanosis may also be present in more advanced cases of Silicosis.
23321	Not all individuals with Silver-Russell dwarfism will present all the characteristic traits and symptoms of the syndrome. Intrauterine Growth Restriction is a general symptom that may indicate the disease in combination with some of the following symptoms: ò Birth weight of less than 2.8kg ò The baby lacks interest in feeding and when he does, difficulty is often observed. ò Excessive night sweating and paleness in the skin, which can be a symptom of hypoglycemia. ò Characteristic facial features includes: 1. Triangle looking face 2. Corners of the mouth are curved down 3. Small jaw 4. Chin that looks pointed 5. Large head ò Younger children have a blue tinge in the whites of the eye ò Fontanel that is wide and closes later than normal ò Delayed growth ò One side of the body grows slowly than the other ò A remarkable loss of subcutaneous fat.
23322	Individuals with Silvery hair syndrome present some of the following symptoms: ò Pigment clusters in hair streaks ò Periodic and intermittent Neutropenia ò Accumulation of melanosome in melanocytes ò Very low blood platelet level ò Declined level of gamma globulin in blood ò Repeated infections ò Enlarged liver ò Enlarged spleen ò Lack of all the different types of blood cells (pancytopenia) due to hemophagocytic syndrome ò Neurological regression ò Fever ò Jaundice ò Loss of skills that are formerly gained ò Seizures ò Reduced reflexes ò Involuntary movement of the eye often described as shaky or wiggly(nystagmus) ò Muscle coordination failure known as ataxia ò anemia
23323	Symptoms of Simpson-Golabi-Behmel syndrome include: ò Prenatal accelerated growth ò Post natal accelerated growth ò Coarse ("bulldog like") facial features such as protruding jaw and tongue, overturned nasal tip and widened nasal bridge ò Height is taller than average ò Increased bone age initially ò Abnormalities in the extremities like broad, short hands and feet ò Sometimes additional fingers and toes might be present ò Mental retardation in some cases ò Other abnormalities may be present including: 1 Small bulge in the small intestine known as Meckel diverticulum 2 Umbilical hernia or inguinal hernia
23324	Affected individuals may experience fever, fatigue, and chills during the early stages of the condition. Nausea, vomiting, abdominal pains, and headaches may occur within a few days. The condition may progress into a cardiopulmonary stage, which is indicated by a cough. The patient may also experience shortness of breath and other respiratory troubles.
23325	A hiccup is sometimes preceded by a small tightening sensation in the chest, abdomen, or throat. The duration of a hiccup episode determines the type of hiccups a person has, which may be transient or acute hiccups, rersistent hiccups, or intractable hiccups.
23326	Individuals suffering from Sino-auricular heart block often presents with the following signs and symptoms: ò Lightheadedness ò Fainting or syncope ò Palpitations, which is defined as abnormal awareness of the beating of the heart ò Abnormal heart rhythm ò Chest pain In some cases, Sino-auricular heart block may be asymptomatic, meaning there are no evident symptoms presented that may suggest the presence of the disorder.
23327	Symptoms of Sinus Cancer includes pain and swelling of the face, doubling of vision, changes in the speech, headache, nosebleeds, numbness of the cheek, upper lip, teeth and side of the nose, blocked sinuses, bleeding of the upper teeth, tearing, blurred vision and bulging cheeks.
23328	For acute sinusitis - nasal congestion, pressure or pain around the inner corner of the eye, headache in the temple and common fever. For maxillary sinusitis (behind the cheek bones) - pain across the cheekbone, pain/pressure on one side or both; swollen, tender, red cheek bone, nasal discharge.
23329	Symptoms includes slow to rapid heart beats, palpitations, fainting, anxiety, dizziness, and heart arrhythmias.
23330	Signs and symptoms of Sipple syndrome include the following: ò Pain in the abdominal region ò Abdominal distension ò Loss of appetite ò Uneasiness ò Nausea ò Excessive urination ò Dehydration ò Rapid heart beat ò Irritability ò Paleness ò Nervousness ò Tremors ò Excessive sweating ò Increased blood pressure (hypertension) ò Increased blood calcium level ò Thyroid tumor
23331	The following are symptoms and signs that are present in an individual suffering from Sirenomelia: ò Completely fused legs ò Nonexistence of sacrum ò Absence of rectum ò Absence of external genitalia ò Absence of internal genitalia ò Abnormal development of kidney ò Absence of bladder ò Missing anus or anus is located in the wrong position
23333	The following are some of the symptoms that suggest the presence of Sitosterolemia: ò Skin lumps or bumps, which are called xanthomas, usually occurring in the Achilles tendons on the heels and the tendons of the hands. ò Increased plant sterol level in the blood ; level of blood cholesterol may be at the normal to high range ò Knees and heels are prone to arthritis ò Chest pain and shortness of breath may be experienced upon exertion because heart disease can be a result of sitosterolemia.
23334	The relevant symptom of situs inversus, X-linked is the mirror-position of the major internal organs of the thorax and abdomen. The heart is located on the right side of the chest, the stomach and spleen on the right side of the abdomen instead of the left side; liver and gall bladder is on the left. The right lung is bilobed and the left lung trilobed. Other structures like blood vessels, lymphatic, nerves and intestines are also in the reverse position. People with situs inversus, X-linked will usually experience symptoms of disorders on the wrong side. For example, left lower abdominal pain will be felt for appendicitis cases because the appendix is located on that site.
23335	This disease often affects children ranging from 6 months to 3 years of age. The main signs of the disease are rashes that appear on the different parts of the skin and high fever. The rashes may last for 2 to 3 days.
23336	Early symptoms of Sjogren's syndrome may include one-sided or both sides swollen parotid salivary gland, swollen cheeks or jaw. The following are some of the characteristic traits and features that presents as symptoms of Sjogren's syndrome: ò Dry mouth and dry eyes ò Skin, nose and vaginal dryness may also occur ò Difficulty in swallowing because of dry mouth ò Mouth redness ò Cracked lips ò Mouth sores in the corners of the mouth ò Gritty feel in the eye ò Foreign body sensation
23336	Sjogren's syndrome typically manifest through dry eyes, dry mouth, dental cavities, fatigue, enlarged parotid glands, swallowing or chewing difficulty, change in sense of taste, skin rashes or dry skin, vaginal dryness, dry cough without sputum, and joint pain, swelling, and stiffness.
23337	Persons with skeletal dysplasia display certain features such as short stature, an abnormally large head, stubby fingers, poor eyesight and low birth weight.
23338	Known symptoms are changes in the skin that do not heal, skin ulcers, changes in existing moles and discoloration. For BCC symptoms are raised, pearly, smooth, bump on the sun-exposed skin of the head, shoulders or neck. For SCC red, scaling, thickened patch on the sun-exposed skin. For melanomas brown to black lesions.
23338	An early sign of skin cancer is the sudden or gradual appearance of a skin lesion. The characteristics of this cancerous skin lesion depend on the type of skin cancer present. In basal cell carcinoma, the most common form of skin cancer, the lesions appear as waxy or pearly bumps on the face, ears, or neck. Another skin cancer, squamous cell carcinoma, presents with a firm, reddish lump or a flat scaly lesion with a crusted surface on the ears, lips, neck, face, arms, and hands. Symptoms of melanoma, the most serious form of skin cancer, may include: large brownish spots with darker speckles appearing in different body parts; a mole that changes in size, color, and texture; a small lesion with red, black, or blue spots on trunks and limbs; firm, shiny, dome-shaped bumps on the body; and dark lesions appearing on the soles, palms, toes, fingertips, or on the mucous membranes of the nose, vagina, mouth, and anus.
23339	It may appear to have a brown color, fleshy in appearance and smooth. Might also have an irregular shape and looks a lot like pigmented. Skin tags also seem to hang and it can be twisted with relative ease. Symptoms may be different from one individual to another.
23339	The main characteristic of skin tags are the small growths that appear on the skin. They usually are the size of a rice grain. These tags do not cause any malignancy in the internal organs of the body, but they do have nerves present inside, so surgery must be done with anesthesia.
23340	Some children have mild, cold-like signs and symptoms that may include sore throat, slight fever, upset stomach, headache, fatigue, and itching. The rashes usually appear on both cheeks and spread to the arms, trunk, thighs and buttocks. Adult suffering from the condition may feel soreness in a joint that last for days or weeks. The illness usually affect the joint of the hands, wrists, knees and ankles. Children and adult patients may not experience any signs or symptoms.
23341	Frequent pauses in breathing when sleeping Gasping or choking Snoring loudly Sudden awakening Waking up sweaty Waking up in the morning unrefreshed Sore throat, headaches or dry mouth Daytime sleepiness
23342	The condition can be a combination of paralysis and hallucinations. The symptoms can happen for a matter of seconds to several minutes.
23342	The condition can be a combination of paralysis and hallucinations. The symptoms can happen for a matter of seconds to several minutes.
23343	An individual who is sleepwalking usually sits up in bed and open his or her eyes, has a glazed, glassy-eyed expression, roams around the house, does routine activities, and speaks or moves clumsily. He or she is unaware of his or her activities after waking up.
23344	Among the symptoms of the condition are severe back pain, sciatica and immobility.
23345	Symptoms of sly syndrome may include mental retardation, short stature marked by abnormally short trunk, intestinal abnormalities, abnormalities in the cornea of the eye, and anomalies involving the skeletal system. Other features of sly syndrome include cleft palate and prominent alveolar processes in the mouth and oral region, microcephaly and frontal prominence in the head, neck and face, flat nose and inverted nostrils. Underdeveloped ilium may be presented with shortness of tubular bones in the extremities. Kyphosis or scoliosis and other hook-like deformities may occur in the thoracic and lumbar vertebrate.
23346	The following symptoms may indicate the presence of the Small cell lung cancer although other medical conditions may also cause the same symptoms. ò Persistent and recurrent coughing ò Shortness of breath ò Chronic chest pain ò Wheezing ò Blood tinged discharge when coughing ò Hoarseness ò Swelling or lump in the face or neck ò Loss of appetite ò Unexplainable weight loss ò Unusual tiredness
23347	The symptoms of the disease include recurring abdominal pain, abnormal bowel movements and headaches due to the pain brought about by the bacterial infection.
23348	Symptoms includes frequent stomach pain, sudden weight loss, weakness , fatigue, vomiting, fever and gastrointestinal problems.
23349	Symptoms of Smallpox include some or all of the following: ò Flu-like symptoms including fever, shivering, and malaise, dry cough, chills, loss of appetite, headache and other body aches. ò Muscle pain ò Joint pain ò Inflammation involving different internal organs ò Pus-filled blisters on the skin
23351	Common characteristics of a child with Smith-Magenis syndrome include some or all of the following: ò Distinct facial features: short wide head, mid-face hypoplasia, prominent forehead, epicanthal folds, wide nasal bridge, protruding jaw and abnormalities in the ear ò short fingers and toes ò Short stature ò Unusually deep and hoarse voice ò Delayed speech ò Learning disabilities ò Mental retardation ò Hypotonia or poor muscle tone ò Feeding problems in infants ò Eye Irregularities or defects ò Sleep disturbances ò Pain insensitivity ò Behavioral problems which may include: (a) Hyperactivity (b) Head banging (c) Hand or nail biting (d) Skin picking (e) explosive outbursts (f) tantrums (g) destructive and aggressive behavior (h) excitability (i) squeezing the arm when excited
23353	Sneddon syndrome is characterized by wide-ranging symptoms that may include some or all of the following: ò Hypertension or increased blood pressure ò Arterial disease ò Tingling feeling when exposed to cold ò Numbness when exposed to cold ò Red bluish or reticular discoloration of skin on extremities ò Presence of ulcers on extremities ò Dilated small vessels ò Headache ò Dizziness ò Cardiovascular disease ò Lesions in the central nervous system due to reduced blood flow to the brain ò Memory loss ò Impaired mental ability ò Gangrene of toes ò Lack or impaired pulse in posterior tibia and dorsalis pedis arteries ò Other neurological symptoms
23355	The common symptoms for this disorder are sweating, extreme blushing, palpitations, trembling, stuttering and nausea. Under extreme anxiety and panic, panic attacks may happen.
23356	An individual with sociophobia presents two general symptoms which are emotional symptoms and physical symptoms. ò Manifestations of emotional symptoms include the following: i) Great fear of being in a situation surrounded by others ii) Being tremendously afraid of criticism iii) Being too much concerned about embarrassing one's self iv) Fear without any basis that someone may notice that you are angry v) Terrible anxiety that may affect your daily routines and other activities ò Physical symptoms that indicates sociophobia includes: i) Cold and clammy hands ii) Difficulty in maintaining eye to eye contact iii) Blushing iv) Trembling v) Nausea vi) Stomach upset vii) Shaky voice viii) Confusion ix) Profuse sweating and nervousness
23357	During the initial stages, soft tissue sarcoma does not produce noticeable symptoms. They are not easily distinguished that they tend to grow large enough to push aside normal tissue causing them to be somehow unobvious. As the tumor grows, more symptoms will develop including: ò Painless lump or swelling will become a little bit painful ò Fever ò Weight loss ò Tumors present in the abdomen will cause abdominal pain that can be mistaken for menstrual cramps or indigestion. Tumors in this area may also cause constipation. ò In general, symptoms that will show up depend on the part of the body where the tumor is located.
23358	An individual with the condition has scaly patches on the top layer of the skin as well as lesions.
23359	This condition shows increased skin pigmentation usually in areas that are most exposed to the sun. It may also be accompanied with other signs of sun damage such as deep wrinkles; dry, rough skin; fine red veins on your cheeks; nose and ears; thinner, more translucent-looking skin.
23360	Individuals suffering from the condition may have bleeding or mucus discharge of the rectum, constipation, diarrhea, or rectal pain or anal sphincter spasms. Others may not manifest any symptoms.
23362	Symptoms may differ depending on the kind of infection. Sore throat accompanied by common cold: watery eyes, sneezing, cough, mild body aches or headache and mild fever (less than 102 F) Sore throat accompanied by influenza: fatigue, body aches, sweats, chills and high fever than 102 F Sore throat accompanied by mononucleosis: tonsils are swollen, lymph nodes in the neck and armpits are swollen, skin rash, headache, lack of appetite, spleen is swollen and soft, liver are swollen
23363	Symptoms of Soto's syndrome vary among individuals but oftentimes include some or all of the following: ò Excessive larger and longer head with slightly protrusive forehead ò Large hands and feet ò Abnormally wide distance between the eyes ò Eyes that appear slanting down ò Clumsiness or awkward gait ò Unusual aggressiveness ò Irritability ò Academic and logical thinking is impaired ò Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder ò Tantrums ò Speech and language delay ò Weak muscle tone that hinders motor skill development like sitting or crawling.
23364	In most cases, symptoms of soy allergy are not serious and are only known to develop mild discomfort such as a tingling sensation in the mouth, hives, swelling of the lips, abdominal pain, runny rose, sore throat and dizziness.
23365	Symptoms includes painful and inflammed skin nodules, swelling of the skin, and destruction of tissues.
23366	On the onset, symptoms of spasmodic dysphonia may tend to be mild and occur intermittently. As the disorder progresses, symptoms may worsen and become more frequent often getting worse when the individual is stressed or tired. The most prominent symptoms of spasmodic dysphonia are strained voice quality and excessive contraction of vocal chords when speaking.
23367	The most significant symptom of spasmodic torticollis is recurrent, sudden and single lateral movements of the neck.
23368	The symptoms of spasticity may include hypertonia, muscle stiffness, muscle spasms, clonus, exaggerated deep tendon reflexes, involuntary crossing of the legs, and contractures.
23369	This medical condition does not usually cause any signs or symptoms and often remain stable in its size. However, in some cases that a gradual growth is detected the following symptoms may be experienced such as pain and discomfort, as well as the feeling of heaviness.
23370	The condition may not show any signs or symptoms. But if it is large enough, affected individuals may experience discomfort, pain, and a feeling of heaviness.
23372	Common signs and symptoms of Spherocytosis include jaundice, enlarged spleen, weakness, pale skin, fatigue, pigmented gallstones. Infection or other illness may cause proliferation in red blood cell destruction leading to the presentation of more acute and serious symptoms, referred to as hemolytic crisis in chronic cases of Spherocytosis.
23374	Spider angiomas manifests mostly on the face or on the trunk. These patterns though may also be present on the ears, the hands, and forearms. The spider angionas usually disappears pressed using the finger and returns right away when the finger is released. There is a red dot on the center with small red lines radiating out.
23376	Early symptoms of Spielmeyer-Vogt disease normally begins to show between the ages of four to ten including the following: ò Vision problems ò Seizures ò Learning delays ò Echolalia or repeating the words spoken ò Stumbling or clumsiness ò Poor circulation in hands and feet ò Shrinkage of body fat and muscle mass ò Breath holding periods ò Spine curvature ò Constipation ò Teeth grinding As time pass, children with Spielmeyer-Vogt disease will experience worsening symptoms including progressive loss of sight, mental impairment, and seizures get worse. Additionally, speech and motor skills may be loss gradually.
23377	Symptoms of Spina bifida differ depending on the extent of the neural tube defect and the type and form of Spina bifida. Most common symptoms of Spina bifida include the following: General weakness in the legs and even paralysis Disturbances in bowel and bladder function Hydrocephalus Abnormal spine curvature Hip dislocations Intellectual deficiencies in some cases Sensitive to latex than can even be life-threatening
23378	Symptoms that are commonly experienced by individuals suffering from spinal cord injury include some or all of the following: ò Loss of sensation ò Paralysis ò Loss of reflex function ò Loss of autonomic activity ò Loss of bowel control ò Loss of bladder control ò Pain ò Difficulty in breathing ò Muscle contraction ò Sexual dysfunction
23379	Symptoms vary depending on which part of the spine is affected; however they often produce certain symptoms in affected areas, in the same way that there are also general symptoms that are commonly experience with any type of neoplasm (tumors). Abnormal nerve sensations like pins and needles, tingling sensation, burning, or itchy sensation (Paresthesia) Pain Numbness Weakness or fatigue Change to movement or motor abilities Incontinence and decreased sensitivity in the buttocks area are regarded as flag signs of a neoplasm compressing the spinal cord.
23380	The most severe form of this degenerative disorder is Infantile Spinal Muscular Atrophy that presents the following symptoms: ò Muscle weakness ò Poor muscle tone (Hypotonia) ò Limping ò Weak cry ò Swallowing or sucking difficulties that may lead to feeding difficulties ò Tendency of the legs to be weaker compared to the hands ò Accumulation of secretions in the lungs or throat ò Multiple contractures that are present since birth, which is related to loss of anterior horn cells ò More prone to develop respiratory tract infections ò Delayed or limited ability to attain developmental milestones like sitting up or lifting the head
23381	The symptoms may vary from one individual to another. The most common symptoms observed in an individual suffering from spinal shock include: ò Absence or loss of reflexes ò Paralysis of the lower extremities ò Bladder overflow incontinence ò Bowel wall paralysis ò Sensory loss ò Flaccid muscle ò Absence of sweating ò Pale or dry skin ò Dull pain ò Headache ò High blood pressure (hypertension) ò Slow heart rate
23382	The narrowing of the spinal canal is not the one responsible for producing the symptoms of Spinal Stenosis. When nerve inflammation reaches the level of increased pressure, patients begin to develop symptoms that may bring trouble and difficulty. The following are some of these symptoms: ò Pain, weakness and numbness are felt in the legs, calves or buttocks of patient's with lumbar spinal stenosis usually during short distance walking. ò Pain, numbness and weakness in the shoulder, arms and legs are felt with patients suffering from cervical spinal stenosis; in addition to hand clumsiness, gait and balance interruptions. Other symptoms may include bladder and bowel problems and sometimes loss of function in very rare cases.
23383	Back pain, particularly in the middle and lower back areas, is the most common sign of both spinal tumor, whether malignant or benign. The pain may spread beyond the spine to the feet, legs, hips, arms, and may progress even with treatment. Other symptoms of spinal tumor include: muscle weakness; loss of sensation especially in the legs; difficulty walking; decreased sensitivity to cold, heat, and pain; loss of bowel or bladder function; varying degrees of paralysis throughout the body; and scoliosis or other spinal deformities.
23384	One of the characteristic features of spinocerebellar ataxia is slowly progressive gait incoordination in addition to poor hand coordination, speech impairment and irregular eye movements. This incoordination presents with unsteady and clumsy motion of the body and other symptoms depending on the type of spinocerebellar ataxia that the individual is inflicted with. Other common symptoms also include deformity of the spine, tremor, sleep disturbances, and paralysis of the lower limb muscles.
23386	The most customary and familiar symptom of splenic-flexure syndrome is left upper abdominal discomfort usually beneath the ribs and may radiate upward. The pain seems to be excruciating usually lasting for minutes and can be expected to recur for several times for weeks and even months. Other symptoms include constipation, stool changes in shape and size, diarrhea, sense of fullness and bloated feeling.
23387	Symptoms of splenomegaly include abdominal pain, feeling of abdominal fullness, anemia symptoms, and palpable mass in the upper left abdominal quadrant, which can be detected by means of using Castell's sign during a physical examination.
23390	Since spondylarthropathy refers to a group of conditions, symptoms may vary and overlap usually depending on the specific inflammatory condition the patient is suffering from. The following are only some of the most common and remarkable symptom of spondylarthropathy: ò Pain in the affected area ò Morning stiffness ò Fever and weight loss ò Extraarticular manifestations or symptoms
23391	Symptoms may vary and overlap with other conditions as the disease progresses. Listed below are some of the most common and general symptoms of spondylitis: ò Pain either in the back, leg or hip ò Malformation of the spine including abnormal curvature of the spine ò Back, thigh or leg Paresthesia ò Diminished strength in the muscles of the leg
23392	Characteristic symptoms include: short stature evident from birth, short trunk, short neck, shortened limbs. Skeletal signs and symptoms are noticeable as the disorder progresses including spine curvature which can either be Kyphoscoliosis or lordosis, flattened vertebrae, upper legs turning inward, clubfoot, and arthritis and decreased joint mobility and in some cases changes in the facial features may occur including the tendency for the cheekbone close to the nose to be flattened. In some cases, infants born with this condition often have cleft palate. Other remarkable manifestations include severe nearsightedness and other vision problems in addition to hearing problems.
23393	Characteristic symptoms include: short stature evident from birth, short trunk, short neck, shortened limbs. Skeletal signs and symptoms are noticeable as the disorder progresses including spine curvature which can either be Kyphoscoliosis or lordosis, flattened vertebrae, upper legs turning inward, clubfoot, and arthritis and decreased joint mobility and in some cases changes in the facial features may occur including the tendency for the cheekbone close to the nose to be flattened. In some cases, infants born with this condition often have cleft palate. Other remarkable manifestations include severe nearsightedness and other vision problems in addition to hearing problems.
23394	Characteristic symptoms resemble those of spondyloepiphyseal dysplasia, congenital type which include: short stature evident from birth, short trunk and shortened limbs. Skeletal signs and symptoms are noticeable as the disorder progresses including spine curvature which can either be scoliosis or lumbar lordosis, flattened vertebrae, severely protruding breast bone, upper legs turning inward, clubfoot, and arthritis and decreased joint mobility and in some cases changes in the facial features may occur including the tendency for the cheekbone close to the nose to be flattened. In some cases, infants born with this condition often have cleft palate. Other remarkable manifestations include severe nearsightedness and retina detachment.
23395	Spongiform encephalopathy demonstrates and presents some of the following symptoms caused by the degenerative condition of the nervous system: ò Decreased ability to control voluntary movements ò Mental confusion or the condition where thought is greatly impaired (dementia) ò Difficulty communicating by means of speaking ò Inability of the eye to follow a moving object ( ocular dysmetria) ò Lower extremities have remarkable diminished reflexes ò Lack of reflexes in the legs and feet ò Spongiform cerebral degeneration ò Positive Babinski sign ò Change in the person's behavior and well-being ò Changes in memory ò Impaired brain function
23396	Sporotrichosis is caused by infection of the fungus Sporothrix schecnkii, which are naturally found in soil, hay, plants, and sphagnum moss. The fungus usually enters through open wounds.
23397	Characteristic features of the disease include high fever, chills, muscle and joint pain, severe headache, abdominal pain, vomiting, lack of appetite, and sensitivity to light. Later symptoms will include the appearance of a characteristic rash during the fourth day of illness, first presented as macular, then maculopapular, which can sometimes be petechial.
23399	Squamous cell skin carcinoma most of the time appears as a tiny, painless nodule or patch that is sometimes inflamed. The surface can be scaly, crusted or wart-like, and an open sore on the center. Squamous cell carcinoma can develop on almost all body parts which may include the genitals and the soles of the feet. This carcinoma is usually found on the head particularly on the scalp, lips, ears, inside the mouth; it can also appear on the back of the hands or arms.
23400	Children with squints usually have difficulty to see things in focus. Children have to adjust their eye movements either outward or inward in order to view an object properly. Blurry vision is also a sign of the disorder.
23401	Excessive ergotamines exposure which causes St. Anthony's fire can cause the following symptoms: ò Hallucinations ò Death of body tissue caused by loss of blood flow to the tissue (gangrene) ò Severe gastrointestinal disturbance ò Seizures ò Dry Gangrenous symptom including dull ache, coldness in the affected area, paleness of the affected flesh, in addition to its appearance which can be described as dry, shrunken and mummified looking flesh. ò Burning arm pain ò Burning leg pain ò Muscle spasm ò Weak peripheral pulse ò Loss of peripheral sensation
23402	St. Louis encephalitis causes fever and headache. A more severe infection may exhibit symptoms such as high fever, headache, neck stiffness, disorientation, tremors, occasional convulsions, coma, and spastic paralysis.
23403	Affected individuals usually experience chest pain and chest discomfort. Others may have nausea, fatigue, shortness of breath, anxiety, sweating, or dizziness.
23404	Signs and symptoms and symptoms of the condition include loss of appetite, abdominal pain, nausea, fatty stools, bloating, diarrhea, unintentional weight loss, and an uncomfortable feeling of fullness after eating.
23405	Affected individuals have difficulty starting a word, sentence or phrase and repeat a sound, syllable, or word. These may be accompanied by rapid eye blinks, tremors of the lips or jaw, and tension, tightness or movement of the face or upper body.
23406	Staph infection symptoms may differ depending on the part of the body that is infected. Skin infections such as boils, impetigo, cellulites, scalded skin syndrome. Food poisoning Toxic shock syndrome Septic arthritis Methicillin-resistant staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) Community-associated methecillin-resistant staphylococcus aureus (CA-MRSA)
23407	Signs and symptoms of the condition are varied depending on the location and severity of the infection as well as its cause.
23408	Staphylococcal infection of the skin usually has the following symptoms: the presence of pus, known as an abscess or boil, redness, swelling and pain on the affected. When the staph bacteria enters the blood stream, it may cause the following: pneumonia, osteomyelitis, and poisoning, among others.
23409	Symptoms, which usually manifests immediately after consuming the contaminated food, include diarrhea, vomiting, abdominal pain, prostration, and retching
23410	Individuals with Stargardt's disease are most of the time sensitive to bright and shimmering light. Pain and diminishing vision is expected usually starting on the center while the side-line vision is still undamaged as the disorder progresses. Most symptoms are noticeable at the age of 20 which includes: ò Blind spots ò Wavy vision ò Difficulty becoming accustomed to dim lighting ò Blurriness
23411	STARI is manifested by a tick bite rash which is characterized by a red, expanding rash with central clearing.
23412	Signs and symptoms and symptoms of the condition include loss of appetite, abdominal pain, nausea, fatty stools, bloating, diarrhea, unintentional weight loss, and an uncomfortable feeling of fullness after eating.
23413	Clinical feature manifests as cysts usually two to twenty millimeters in diameter; but there can be cases where they tend to be several centimeters in diameter. Texture may range from soft to firm with an oily yellow fluid inside, which is called sebum. In some cases, hair may be present within the cysts. Inflammation is possible and may leave scar similar to acne nodules when healed.
23414	The symptoms include : formation of non-solid feces, floating stools due to excess fat from malabsorption, or the occurrence of an oily anal leakage, or some level of fecal incontinence.
23415	The condition often has vague and nonspecific symptoms such as fatigue, malaise, a dull ache in the upper right abdomen, or a possible sign of an enlarged liver. The condition which is involved in a more advanced stage of liver disease, such as cirrhosis, the patient may experience a lack of appetite, weight loss, nausea, fatigue, or liver failure.
23416	Affected individuals experience loss of balance while walking and an inability to properly aim their eyes.
23417	The principal features of Stein-Leventhal syndrome are weight problems, lack of regular ovulation that may sometimes be coupled with lack of menstruation, excessive amounts of androgenic hormones and the effects of excessive androgenic hormones. Most common symptoms of Stein-Leventhal syndrome include: ò Irregular, few and sometimes nonexistent menstruation ò Infertility due to failure to ovulate ò Excessive body hair usually presenting in a male pattern ò Male pattern baldness ò Noticeable pain during sexual contact ò Oily skin usually with acne appearance ò Dark patches of skin usually a sign of resistance to insulin ò Bloating, mood swings, back and pelvic pain ò Depression in some cases
23418	The affected finger may be stiff and click when moved. A bump or tenderness may appear at the base of the affected finger. If it becomes worse, the finger sometimes catches in a bent position and suddenly pops straight. It may later stay in a bent position.
23419	Being considered as a syndrome, Stevens - Johnson syndrome has a wide range of symptoms including the following: ò Skin lesions that may sometimes be painful ò Skin blisters ò Lesions in the mucous membranes usually in the mouth, throat, anus and even genitals that may appear either as a rash or blister ò Blister or rash in the conjunctiva of the eye or sometimes inflammation of the conjunctiva ò Fatigue ò Fever ò General feeling of discomfort ò Mild itching ò Burning sensation ò Joint or muscle pain
23420	A characteristic trait of Stickler syndrome is a somewhat flattened facial appearance. This is the result of underdeveloped bones in the middle of the face, including cheekbones and the bridge of the nose. Children with a cleft palate are also prone to frequent ear infections and difficulties with swallowing. ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
23421	A characteristic trait of Stickler syndrome is a somewhat flattened facial appearance. This is the result of underdeveloped bones in the middle of the face, including cheekbones and the bridge of the nose. Children with a cleft palate are also prone to frequent ear infections and difficulties with swallowing. ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
23422	A characteristic trait of Stickler syndrome is a somewhat flattened facial appearance. This is the result of underdeveloped bones in the middle of the face, including cheekbones and the bridge of the nose. Children with a cleft palate are also prone to frequent ear infections and difficulties with swallowing. ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
23423	Some cases of Stickler syndrome, type I are asymptomatic while other cases have all the following features which may vary in severity: ò Flattened facial appearance featuring flat cheeks, flat nasal bridge, small upper and lower jaw, prominent upper lip groove and palate defects ò Pierre Robin syndrome featuring U-shaped or V-shaped cleft palate, excessively large tongue . Frequent ear infections and swallowing difficulties are common to children with cleft palate. ò Extreme near-sightedness due to the shape of the eyes ò Retinal detachment and glaucoma is usually observed in people with eye involvement ò Distinctive appearance of the vitreous (jelly-like matter within the eye) of the eye ò Arthritis ò End of the long bone abnormalities ò Spine curvature ò Knock knee ò Joint pain ò Hearing loss that may range from mild to severe, which can be progressive in some cases ò Learning difficulties
23424	Symptoms include eye pain, discharge from the eye, difficulty opening the eye, and vision problems.
23425	Those affected with the illness experience progressive, fluctuating tonic muscle contractions, particularly the axial musculature. Depression and anxiety are often seen although this may be a result of discomfort due to stiffness, rather than underlying neurochemical abnormalities. MRI detection of GABA in the brain have demonstrated decreased levels in stiff-person syndrome
23426	Stiff-person syndrome is characterized by muscle rigidity that waxes and wanes with concurrent spasms. Stiff-person syndrome usually starts in the axial muscles, and extends to the proximal limb muscles.
23427	Still's disease usually starts with systemic (body-wide) symptoms. Extreme fatigue can accompany waves of high fevers that rise daily to 102 degrees F or even higher and quickly return to normal levels or below. Fever spikes often arise at nearly the same time every day.
23428	Symptoms for this syndrome are reported to have the same symptoms with posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) like insomnia, general irritability, nightmares, hard up in concentrating, easily startled, feelings of confusion, lack of ability to enjoy experiences that was previously exciting, feeling of distrust towards other people and flashbacks.
23429	Before an attack, a patient may become pale, his heart rhythm experiences a temporary pause, and unconsciousness or seizure, lasting for approximately thirty seconds, may follow.
23430	One initial sign of stomach cancer is microscopic internal bleeding, which is usually only detected by tests that check the stool for blood. The patient may also feel tired if this bleeding causes the loss of too many healthy red blood cells (anemia). Early stomach cancer may also lead to symptoms such as heartburn and abdominal pain, which can be mistaken for other, more common problems.
23431	Affected individuals suffer from watery but not bloody diarrhea, abdominal cramps and pain, and nausea, vomiting or both. They may also occasionally feel muscle aches or headache and have low-grade fever.
23432	The main features exhibited by gastritis are stomach pain, difficulty in digesting food, and irritability due to abnormal bowel movement.
23434	Affected individuals feel a burning sensation involving in the tongue, lips, gums, palate, throat, or most areas of the mouth. They may also feel like they are having a dry mouth, sore mouth, a bitter or metallic taste, or a tingling sensation in the mouth or on the tip of the tongue.
23435	Symptoms of strabismus include: uncoordinated eye movements; double vision; vision in only one eye, with loss of depth perception; turned or crossed eye; head tilt or turn; squinting; double vision; and crossed eyes.
23436	Symptoms of strep throat include: Throat pain; difficulty swallowing; red and swollen tonsils, sometimes with white patches or streaks of pus; swollen, tender lymph glands (nodes) in the neck; fever; headache; rash; stomachache and sometimes vomiting, especially in younger children.
23437	In adults, group B strep usually does not cause any symptoms. However, in rare cases, it can result to serious bloodstream infections, urinary tract infections, skin infections, and pneumonia, especially in people with weakened immune systems and other health problems, such as diabetes.
23438	Symptoms for stretch marks usually manifests the belly and on the breasts especially during pregnancy. It also manifests on the thighs and lower back of teenage men. In teenage girls, it usually manifests on the breasts, the thighs, and the buttocks. Bodybuilders also have stretch marks on the shoulders. People who are taking corticosteroids or those that have other underlying diseases, the lesions may spread wider. Stretch marks are faint pink in color, usually linear or parallel and appears like band. These markings are slightly itchy and gradually becomes large and changes color from red to purple and finally white and depressed that appears like a crepe paper.
23439	Symptoms for stretch marks usually manifests the belly and on the breasts especially during pregnancy. It also manifests on the thighs and lower back of teenage men. In teenage girls, it usually manifests on the breasts, the thighs, and the buttocks. Bodybuilders also have stretch marks on the shoulders. People who are taking corticosteroids or those that have other underlying diseases, the lesions may spread wider. Stretch marks are faint pink in color, usually linear or parallel and appears like band. These markings are slightly itchy and gradually becomes large and changes color from red to purple and finally white and depressed that appears like a crepe paper.
23440	The FAST test is used to verify symptoms of stroke which is widely used by pre-hospital care professionals in UK. FAST means: Face - to see if there is anything "dropping" Arm - patient holds his arms out for 30 seconds to see if one of the arms moves down slowly Speech - to check for slurring Test all three - all three must be tested If three areas in the brain affected contain the corticospinal tract, spinothalamic tract and dorsal column symptoms may include numbness, muscle weakness in the face and decrease in sensory. Usually only one side of the body is affected with stroke. If the brainstem is affected symptoms include change in smell, hearing, taste or vision; eyelid is drooping, ocular muscles weakness, reduced reflexes and sensation, problems in balancing, change in breathing and heart rate, lack of ability to turn head to one side and tongue weakness.
23441	Strongyloidiasis is frequently asymptomatic. Gastrointestinal system symptoms include abdominal pain and diarrhea, while pulmonary symptoms (including L÷ffler's syndrome) can occur during pulmonary migration of the filariform larvae. Dermatologic symptoms include urticarial rashes in the buttocks and waist areas. Blood eosinophilia is typically present.
23443	Sturge-Weber syndrome is characterized at birth by seizures accompanied by a large port-wine stain birthmark on the forehead and upper eyelid of one side of the face. The birthmark can differ in color from light pink to deep purple, and is caused by an overabundance of capillaries around the ophthalmic branch of the trigeminal nerve, just beneath the surface of the face.
23444	Common symptoms are difficulty in saying a word, phrase or sentence; repeating a word or sound. Symptoms may be accompanied by rapid eye blinks, lips or jaw tremors and tension in the movement of the upper body.
23445	Known symptoms are pain, red lump that looks like pimple or boil, inflammation on the eyelid, sensitivity to light, itching sensation and tearing.
23446	It is marked by a history of primary measles infection before the age of 2 years, followed by several asymptomatic years (6-15 on average), and then gradual, progressive psychoneurological deterioration, consisting of personality change, seizures, myoclonus, ataxia, photosensitivity, ocular abnormalities, spasticity, and coma.
23447	The increase of pressure on the brain may cause headache, nausea, vomiting, drowsiness, dizziness, confusion, slurred speech or loss of ability to speak, unequal pupil size, weakness in limbs on one side of the body. As more blood flows into the brain or in the space between the brain and skull, symptoms such as lethargy, seizures, and unconsciousness may become apparent.
23448	The increase of pressure on the brain may cause headache, nausea, vomiting, drowsiness, dizziness, confusion, slurred speech or loss of ability to speak, unequal pupil size, weakness in limbs on one side of the body. As more blood flows into the brain or in the space between the brain and skull, symptoms such as lethargy, seizures, and unconsciousness may become apparent.
23449	A couple fails to get pregnant. Having abnormal menstrual periods may be a sign of an infertile woman may while having hormonal problems such as changes in hair growth or sexual function, may be signs of an infertile man.
23450	Some symptoms include: Delayed gross motor development; delayed mental development; delayed fine motor skill development; delayed speech and language development; and hypotonia.
23453	The most usual symptoms are sudden loss of consciousness or sudden death which usually happens during physical activities or emotional stress.
23454	In cases of sudden cardiac arrest, the symptoms are often drastic and appear quite suddenly without warning. Typically, sudden cardiac arrest occurs with: sudden collapse, loss of pulse or heart functions, no signs of breathing, and loss of consciousness. In some instances, other symptoms may precede sudden cardiac arrest, including: fainting, fatigue, blackouts, chest pain, dizziness, shortness of breath, palpitations, or vomiting. Most of the time, however, sudden cardiac arrest occurs with no warning whatsoever.
23455	The most common underlying reason for patients to die all of a sudden from cardiac arrest is coronary heart disease (fatty buildups in the arteries that supply blood to the heart muscle).
23456	There are no specified symptoms yet for SIDS
23457	Intense swelling, immobility and numbness are the symptoms commonly felt by persons with RSDS. They may also experience recurring cramps on the affected area.
23459	The following characteristic anomalies may be observed in patients: narrow bifrontal diameter, deep-set eyes, dislocated lenses, and a lack of response to light.
23460	Persons who suffer from sun stroke would feel extreme dryness and redness of the skin, high body temperature and may soon lose consciousness. Mental confusion, dizziness and tingling sensations may arise soon after, and when not treated, the condition can be fatal.
23461	Sunburned skin usually appears pink or red and feels hot or warm when touched, and painful. If it covers a large area, the person may feel headache, fever, and fatigue. Small fluid-filled blisters may also appear. The severity will be know after a day or more.
23462	The symptoms of phlebitis include redness, swelling, and tenderness and pain of the area affected, and at times, may be accompanied by fever. Palpation of a painful or tender area is also a symptom of superficial thrombophlebitis.
23463	Slow vertical saccades and square wave jerks are early symptoms in most patients. The common gaze palsy in PSP is supranuclear ophthalmoplegia. Supranuclear in this context refers to a lesion that is found above the ocular motor nuclei, thus sparing the ocular motor nuclei, nerve fascicles, and neuromuscular junctional and extraocular muscles.
23464	Shoulder pain is usually felt by someone suffering from the inflammation. Stiffness and limited movement is also present.
23466	It is common with specific phobias, an occasional fright may give rise to abnormal anxiety that requires treatment.
23467	Some symptoms include sensoneural deafness, brain disease, retinal blood vessel damage, headache, cognitive problems, ataxia, and psychiatric disorders.
23468	An individual with the condition may feel pain while swallowing, unable to swallow, choke or cough when eating, a sensation of stuck food in the throat or chest, or behind the breastbone. Infants with the condition may lack of attention during feeding or meals, have a tense body during feeding, refuse to eat foods of different textures, have an inability to coordinate breathing with eating and drinking, lose weight or gain it slowly, they also have slow growth, and frequent respiratory infections.
23469	Sweaty sock syndrome usually manifests on the big toe, ball of the foot, heel, or rarely on the creases in between the toes. It appears shiny, and red patches on the sole of the feet with occational painful cracks or fissures.
23470	Symptoms include fatigue, anhidrosis, and red spots on skin. Some of the typical pathological symptoms includes skin lesions (angiokeratomas), and a burning pain of the extremities. This pain can become very strong, especially when one has a fever. Angiokeratomas are tiny, painless papules that appear at any region of the body, but are typically found on the thighs, buttocks, lower abdomen, and groin. Ocular involvement may be found showing cornea verticillata (also known as vortex keratopathy); this corneal whorling does not have any effect on vision or eye function.
23471	The distinctive skin lesions are the most obvious sign of Sweet's syndrome, and they seem to appear suddenly as a series of small red bumps that quickly increase in size. These bumps, also called plaques, may grow to be 1 centimeter in diameter or larger. Plaques typically appear on the back, neck, arms and face. These tender and painful eruptions may develop blisters, pustules or ulcers, causing the skin to burn or itch
23472	The symptoms of swift disease include edemas, peripheral neuropathy, hyperhidrosis, hypertension, and extreme redness of the skin especially on the cheeks. Photophobia is also present in persons affected by the disease.
23473	Symptoms typically include severe pain on moving the outer ear; pain or discomfort in or around the outer ear; itching of the outer ear; swelling in the ear or lymph nodes in the neck; feeling of fullness or stuffiness in the ear; pus draining from the ear; and decreased or muffled hearing.
23474	Itching Raised papules
23474	Infected individuals suffer from itchy, red, raised areas on their skin.
23475	The symptoms for the disease include reddish spots in the limbs, which eventually burst open and become sores.
23476	Symptoms include: runny nose, sore throat, fever and other indications of an upper respiratory infection; general swelling of lymph nodes throughout the body, indicative of infections such as HIV or mononucleosis, an infection of the glands, or immune disorders, such as lupus or rheumatoid arthritis; red, inflamed skin over the swollen lymph node; swollen limb, possibly indicating lymph system blockage caused by swelling in a lymph node too far under the skin to feel; and hardened, fixed, rapidly growing nodes, possibly indicating a tumor.
23478	SC is marked by the acute onset (sometimes a few hours) of motor symptoms, classically chorea, usually affecting all limbs. Other motor symptoms include hypotonia, facial grimacing, loss of fine motor control and a gait disturbance.
23479	Symptoms of Sympathetic Ophtalmitis are occurrence of floating spots and loss of accommodation, pain in the eye and photopobia.
23481	Before losing consciousness, the individual frequently experiences a prodrome of symptoms such as lightheadedness, nausea, sweating, ringing in the ears, and visual disturbances. These last for at least a few seconds before consciousness is lost, which usuallyy happens when the person is sitting up or standing
23482	The infant has two or more digits (fingers, toes) fused together.
23483	This syndrome causes dilutional hyponatremia and all the consequences associated with that condition: headache, nausea, vomiting, and confusion may ensue. Severe hyponatremia may result to convulsions or coma.
23484	Symptoms of Syndrome x include: fasting hyperglycemia - diabetes mellitus type 2 or impaired fasting glucose, impaired glucose tolerance, or insulin resistance; high blood pressure; central obesity (also known as visceral, male-pattern or apple-shaped adiposity), overweight with fat deposits mainly around the waist; decreased HDL cholesterol; and elevated triglycerides.
23485	The most common form of synesthesia, colored letters and numbers, occurs when someone always sees a certain color in response to a certain letter of the alphabet or number. For example, a synesthete (a person with synesthesia) might see the word "table" as mint green or the number "4" as dark blue. There are also those who hear sounds in response to smell, who smell in response to touch, or who feel something in response to sight. There are a few people who possess synesthesia involving three or even more senses, but this is extremely rare.
23486	Infants with the condition usually have misshapen skulls. However, it does not also mean that misshapen heads signal craniosynostosis. Other signs of the condition include an abnormal feeling fontanel on the baby's skull as well as its early disappearance, delayed or no growth of the head, intercranial pressure, and developed raised, hard ridge along affected sutures. These signs however, may be more noticeable during the first few months of birth.
23487	Chronic, progressive pain and swelling of affected joint, worsened by physical activity. Joint effusion and limited range of motion are usual associated features. It primarily affects large joints, including knee (less than 50%), elbow, hip, and shoulder.
23488	Synovial sarcoma usually arises with an otherwise asymptomatic swelling or mass, although general symptoms related to maligancies can be reported such as fatigue.
23489	Because of the mass of inflammatory cells in rheumatoid arthritis, the joint appears swollen and feels puffy or boggy when touched.
23490	Primary symptoms include a small, painless sore (chancre) on the part of the body where the infection was transmitted, usually the genitals, rectum, tongue or lips. A single chancre is typical, but there can be multiple sores. There may also be enlarged lymph nodes found in the groin.
23491	Some symptoms include vocal chord paralysis, tongue atrophy, tongue fibrillation, speaking difficulty, and vertigo.
23492	Syringomas are skin-colored or yellowish, small, dermal papules and may sometimes appear translucent or cystic.
23493	Since the spinal cord connects the brain to the nerves in the extremities, this damage may lead to pain, weakness, and stiffness in the back, shoulders, arms or legs. Other symptoms may include headaches and loss of the ability to feel extremes of hot or cold, especially in the hands and disruption in one's body temperature.
23494	Cutaneous symptoms, often linked or preceded by Raynaud's phenomenon and arthralgias of the fingers, are usually early signs in the course of SSc and therefore helpful for establishing the diagnosis and initiating therapy.
23495	One classic initial presentation of primary carnitine deficiency is hypoketotic hypoglycemic encephalopathy, accompanied by hepatomegaly, hyperammonemia, and elevated liver transaminases. Cardiomyopathy is the other classic presentation (affecting older children); onset may arise with rapidly progressive heart failure. Cardiomyopathy can also be seen in older patients with a metabolic presentation, even if they are asymptomatic from a cardiac standpoint
23496	SLE's symptoms vary so widely it often mimics or is mistaken for other illnesses. Diagnosis can be elusive, with patients sometimes suffering unexplained symptoms and untreated SLE for years on end. Common initial and chronic complaints are fever, malaise, fatigue, joint pains, and myalgias.
23497	Some symptoms include: itching, abdominal cramping; anaphylaxis; skin lesions; abdominal discomfort; episodes of very low blood pressure (including shock) and faintness; bone or muscle pain; and nausea and vomiting.
23501	Some symptoms include: dizzines, shortness of breath, lightheadness, rapid heartbeat, heart palpitation, chest pain, blackouts, visual problems, and fainting (syncope).
23502	Symptoms include the occurrence of rapid breathing. A person experiencing this type of medical condition often has a respiratory rate of more than 60 respirations per minute and may be accompanied by retractions of the chest and cyanosis.
23503	People infected with adult taenia are often asymptomatic. Infected people may become aware of an infection by noticing proglottid segments of the tapeworm in their feces. Symptoms of infection, if any, are general, such as nausea, intestinal upset, vague abdominal symptoms such as hunger pains, diarrhea and/or constipation, or chronic indigestion. Heightened eosinophils may be a sign of infection.
23504	Among the symptoms included in tailbone pain are swelling and tenderness of the tailbone. Persons with this disease often find it painful to sit down.
23505	The inflammation of the aorta and its branch arteries can result to poor blood supply to tissues of the body in patients with Takayasu disease. This can lead to painful, cool or blanched extremities, dizziness, headaches, chest pain, and abdominal pain. Other early symptoms can include weight loss fatigue, and low-grade fever.
23506	General signs and symptoms that is associated with Takayasu's arteritis include fever, night sweats, weight loss, fatigue, and muscle as well as joint pains. In severe conditions, symptoms may include lightheadedness, high blood pressure, arm weakness, chest pains, mild anemia and absence of a pulse in the wrist.
23509	People affected by this condition also have slightly increased amounts of fat in the blood (mild hypertriglyceridemia) and disturbances in nerve function (neuropathy). The tonsils are visibly affected by this disorder; they usually appear orange or yellow and are extremely enlarged. Affected people often develop premature atherosclerosis, which is marked by fatty deposits and scar-like tissue lining the arteries. Other symptoms of this condition may include an enlarged spleen (splenomegaly), an enlarged liver (hepatomegaly), clouding of the cornea, and early-onset cardiovascular disease.
23510	Infected persons usually do not show symptoms of the infection. However, with the existence of tapeworm in the intestines, there may possibly be noticeable segments of the adult tapeworm in the stool. Other signs and symptoms may also include nausea, weakness, loss of appetite, abdominal pain, diarrhea, weight loss, and inadequate absorption of food nutrients. If the tapeworm larvae has invaded other tissues through the form of cysts, organ and tissue damage occur that result in fever, cystic masses or lumps, allergic reactions to the larvae, bacterial infections, and if the brain is infected, neurological symptoms or seizures.
23512	Tardive dyskinesia is marked by repetitive, involuntary, purposeless movements. Features of the disorder may include tongue protrusion, lip smacking, puckering and pursing of the lips, grimacing, and rapid eye blinking. Rapid movements of the arms, legs, and trunk may also arise. Impaired movements of the fingers may seem as though the patient is playing an invisible guitar or piano.
23513	Symptoms include: tingling, burning, or a sensation similar to an electrical shock; numbness; and pain, including shooting pain.
23516	All patients with Tay-Sachs disease have a "cherry-red" spot, easily seen by a physician using an ophthalmoscope, in the back of their eyes (the retina). This red spot is the area of the retina which is highlighted because of gangliosides in the surrounding retinal ganglion cells (which are neurons of the central nervous system).
23517	Individuals with the condition unconsciously clench their teeth together during daytime or while sleeping. They may also have worn, flattened, or chipped teeth. They also experience earache due to sever jaw muscle contractions.
23518	Telangiectasias can lead to naevus flammeus (port-wine stain), which is a flat birthmark on the head or neck that spontaneously regresses. A port-wine stain, if present, will develop proportionately with the child.
23519	HHT is marked by telangiectasia (small vascular malformations) on the skin and mucosal linings, epistaxis (nosebleeds), and arteriovenous malformations (AVMs) in various internal organs. Skin and mucosa telangiectasias are most remarkable on the tongue, hands/fingers, lips, nose, mouth/throat and conjunctiva.
23520	Affected individuals frequently have headaches, pain in the jaw, and blurred or double vision. If the condition is severe, it could lead to blindness or stroke. Although the symptoms of the condition vary, most affected individuals feel aches in the muscle with fever and fatigue as well as headache.
23521	The symptoms experienced by the patient with TLE and the signs observable by others during seizures depend upon the specific areas of the temporal lobes and neighboring brain areas affected by the seizure.
23522	Affected individuals experience a preceding unusual sensation or emotion such as a sudden sense of unprovoked fear, a deja vu experience, a rising sensation in the abdomen, and the sudden occurrence of a strange odor or taste. Signs and symptoms may include loss of awareness of surroundings, staring, lip-smacking, repeated swallowing, and making picking motions with the fingers. After an episode, the patient may be confused and unable to recall the events that occurred during the seizure.
23523	Although there are several symptoms of the TMJ syndrome these symptoms might be experienced by an individual, which are eye problems (eyes are bloodshot, vision is blurred, pain above, below and behind the eye; pressure behind the eyes, sensitivity of light and eyes is watering), headache problems such as forehead pain, migraines, cluster headaches, sinus type headache, sensitive to touch and headaches felt at the back of the head. Other symptoms also include teeth and gum problems such as clenching during the day or night, tooth pain, grinding teeth and sensitive teeth. Face, mouth, cheek and chin problems, ear, throat, neck and shoulder problems.
23524	The main symptom of the disorder is pain in the jaws. Clicking and popping sounds in the joints can also be heard when the muscles are used. The pain can spread on to the neck and shoulder blades. Normal vision and balance are also impaired.
23525	TEN affects several parts of the body, but it most severely affects the mucous membranes, such as the mouth, eyes, and vagina. The severe findings of TEN are usually preceded by 1 to 2 weeks of fever. When the rash appears it may be over large and varied parts of the body, and it is often warm and appears red.
23526	Symptoms of the condition such as pain, tenderness, and mild swelling in some cases, may be aggravated by movement. The location of the condition also produces specific types of pain.
23527	Individuals with the condition experience pain radiating from the outside of the elbow into the forearm and wrist, pain when touching or bumping the outside of the elbow, and pain when extending the wrist. They may also have a weak or painful grip during certain activities such as shaking hands or turning a doorknob. At other times, they may still feel pain even when their arms are still.
23529	Patients with terminal ileitis suffer from extreme pain on the lower-right abdomen, accompanied by fever, chills, and other gastrointestinal infections. Abdominal cramps, nausea and vomiting are also present.
23530	Some of the symptoms of testes neoplasm include scrotum lump, testicle lump, testicle pain, painless testicle lump, and painless testicle swelling.
23531	The testicle has not completely descended into the scrotum, which may still be inside the abdominal cavity or partway down the inguinal canal or may have never formed.
23532	Enlargement or lump in one or both testicles Heaviness in the scrotum Mild ached in the groin or abdomen Abrupt collection of fluid in the scrotum Pain in a testicle or scrotum Softness or swelling of breasts Unexplained weakness
23532	Common symptoms of testicular cancer include: enlarged testicles; a lump on either one of the testicles; a sensation of heaviness in the scrotum; a dull ache the abdomen or groin region; pain and general discomfort in the scrotum or testicle; tenderness or enlargement of male breasts; as well as unexplained fatigue and general malaise. Testicular cancer typically affects only one of the testicles.
23533	Individuals with the condition experience sudden or severe pain in a testicle, nausea and vomiting, abdominal pain, fever, and swelling of the scrotum. They may also have a testicle that is abnormally higher or positioned an odd angle. If a testicle twists or untwists on its own, there may be sudden pain that would cease without treatment.
23534	The signs and symptoms of the condition depend on its development. If the condition occurs during fetal development, a genetically male child may be born with female genitals, ambiguous genitals, and underdeveloped male genitals. If it occurs during puberty, a child's growth and development is affected causing decreased development of muscle mass, lack of a deep voice, impaired growth of body hair, impaired growth of the penis and testicles, excessive growth of the arms and legs in relation to the trunk of the body, and development of breast tissue. If the condition develops during adulthood, certain masculine physical characteristics may be altered and normal reproductive function is impaired. Adults with the condition may have erectile dysfunction, infertility, increased in body fat, a developed breast tissue, loss of bone mass. It may also result in mental and emotional changes such as those experienced by women during menopause.
23535	Infection generally arises through wound contamination, and often involves a cut or deep puncture wound. As the infection develops, muscle spasms in the jaw develop, hence the common name, lockjaw. This is followed by difficulty swallowing and general muscle stiffness and spasms in some other parts of the body
23536	Symptoms includes muscle cramping and pain and involuntary contraction of the muscles.
23537	Lesions Hairy patches Dimples or fatty tumours on the lower back Deformities in the feet and spine Leg weakness Low back pain Scoliosis Incontinence Frequent UTI Bowel movement changes
23538	Symptoms includes lesions, hairy patches, scoliosis, back pain, weakness of the legs, foot and spinal deformities and fatty tumours.
23539	Low blood oxygen saturation Heart murmur Eating difficulty Incapability to gain weight Growth retardation and physical development Dyspnea on exertion Fingers are clubbing, toes and polycythemia
23540	Symptoms of the condition depend on the location and severity of the injury but patients experience the same symptoms no matter its type. Patients feel pain or an intense stinging sensation in the spinal cord; loss of movement, sensation, bowel, or bladder control; changes in sexual function; exaggerated reflex activities; and breathing difficulty. Emergency signs and symptoms may include fading in and out of consciousness; extreme back pain or pressure in the neck, head, or back; paralysis in any part of the body, loss of bladder or bowel control; or an abnormally positioned or twisted neck or back.
23541	Symptoms include beaked nose, retarded fetal growth, lack of ear cartilage, small jaw, underdeveloped kidneys, short upper lip groove, clubfoot, narrow forehead, small head, and developmental delays.
23542	People with thalassemia major may experience paleness, headaches, fatigue, shortness of breath, jaundice, and spleen enlargement
23543	People with thalassemia major may experience paleness, headaches, fatigue, shortness of breath, jaundice, and spleen enlargement.
23544	People with thalassemia minor have (at most) mild anemia (with slight lowering of the hemoglobin level in the blood).
23545	Symptoms includes feeling of nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, loss of reflexes, convulsions, muscle wasting, headaches, numbness, psychosis, dementia, hair loss or alopecia and disturbance of heart rhythm.
23546	Phobias are identified by extreme anxiety or panic every time a specific circumstance is encountered, in this case, death.
23547	Symptoms includes fatigue, poor memory, irritability, sleep disturbance, muscle cramps, decreased or reduced vibratory position sensation, muscle atrophy, ankle jerking, chest pain, heart failure,constipation, aphnonia, congestive heart failure, abdominal discomfort, sudden weight loss and weakness.
23548	Symptoms include: Pain, particularly in the medial aspect of the arm, forearm, and the ring and small digits; paresthesias, often nocturnal, awakening the patient with pain or numbness; loss of dexterity; cold intolerance; occipital headache; and weakness.
23549	Early symptoms of throat cancer are relatively generic and may be attributed to other conditions. Some of the common symptoms of throat cancer are: chronic sore throat; speech difficulties; chronic earaches; numbness in the face; enlarged lymph nodes; uncharacteristic hoarseness in the voice; pain when swallowing; and visible sores or lesions appearing on the mouth or tongue.
23550	Characteristically, there is increased mucosal bleeding. The bleeding tendency is variable but may be extreme. Affected persons present with moderate bleeding and normal platelet morphology. Aggregation of platelets happens in response to ristocetin, but not to other agonists such as ADP, thrombin, collagen or epinephrine.
23551	Individuals suffering from the disease feel pain and weakness in the legs and feet or the arms and hands, swelling in the feet and hands, pale fingers and toes when exposed to cold, and open sores on the fingers and toes.
23552	Symptoms of thrombocytopahy include: abnormal blood clotting, prolonged bleeding time, hemorrhage, excessive bleeding, abnormal blood platelet function, excessive menstrual bleeding, bleeding gums, gastrointestinal bleeding, blood in urine and stool, bleeding nose, easy bruising, bleeding into the skin, and excessive bleeding following injury and surgery.
23553	Often, low platelet levels do not result to clinical problems; rather, they are picked up on a routine full blood count (or CBC, complete blood count ). Sometimes, there may be bruising, particularly purpura in the forearms, nosebleeds and/or bleeding gums.
23554	Symptoms are evident at birth, infant has arms that are very short and wrists may be angled upwards and outwards. Other muscles or skeletal parts of the body maybe affected like the ulna where in it is often abnormal or short. Knees may also out of place, kneecaps and knee joints are not stable. Most patients with TAR syndrome have low blood platelet count. Other symptoms may include gastrointestinal tract bleeding, bruising, or blood in the vomit. Some patients have too many white blood cells, low red blood cell count and about 30% of the patients have congenital heart defect and 20% have abnormalities in the urinary tract.
23556	People who have ITP tyipcally have purple bruises that appear on the skin or on the mucous membranes (for example, in the mouth). The bruises mean that bleeding has occurred in small blood vessels underneath the skin. A person who has ITP may also have bleeding that results in tiny red or purple dots on the skin. These dots, typically seen on the lower legs, are called petechiae.
23557	Some symptoms include: bleeding into the skin, bleeding into the mucous membranes, nosebleed, gastrointestinal bleeding, genitourinary bleeding, vaginal bleeding, anemia, weakness, fatigue, congestive heart failure, fever, and enlarged spleen.
23558	High platelet levels do not necessarily signal any clinical concerns, and are picked up on a routine full blood count. However, it is crucial that a full medical history be elicited to ensure that the increased platelet count is not due to a secondary process. Often, it arises in tandem with an inflammatory disease, as the principal stimulants of platelet production (e.g. thrombopoietin) are heightened in these clinical states as part of the acute phase reaction.
23559	Symptoms includes deep venous thrombosis, swelling and pain of the extremities both upper and lower, weakness and dizziness.
23560	Many individuals with the condition do not have symptoms. However, others may experience warmth, tenderness, and pain in the affected area as well as redness and swelling. A red, hard, and tender cord appears under the skin's surface when a superficial vein is affected. If a deep vein in the leg is affected, the leg may become swollen, tender and painful, especially when the person stands or walks. An affected individual may have a fever.
23561	Symptoms vary depending on the effects of limitation of the blood flow through the vessel affected.
23563	Symptoms include severe itching, burning, and soreness, irritation of the vagina and/or vulva, and a whitish or whitish-gray discharge, usually with a curd-like appearance.
23564	Symptoms of thymic carcinoma include: chest pain; a persistent cough; shortness of breath; difficulty swallowing; hoarseness of the voice; and swelling of the neck due to the tumour pressing on blood vessels in the chest - this is known as superior vena cava obstruction (SVCO).
23565	A third of all people with a thymoma have symptoms because of compression of the surrounding organs by an expansive mass. This may take the form of superior vena cava syndrome (compression of the upper caval vein), dysphagia (or a difficulty swallowing), cough or chest pain.
23566	Symptoms usually includes coughing that remains even after medication, pain in the chest, difficulty in breathing, weakness and sudden weight loss.
23567	Thyroglossal duct cysts usually present with a palpable (able to be felt) asymptomatic midline neck mass below the level of the hyoid bone. The mass on the neck moves from its place during swallowing. The persistent duct or sinus can promote oral secretions, which may lead to the cysts to become infected. Infection can occasionally cause the transient appearance of a mass or enlargement of the cyst, at times with periodic recurrences.
23568	Most often the initial symptom of thyroid cancer is a nodule in the thyroid region of the neck. Many adults, however, have small nodules in their thyroids. But usually under 5% of these nodules are found to be malignant. Sometimes the initlal sign is an enlarged lymph node. Later symptoms that can be found are pain in the anterior region of the neck and changes in voice.
23569	Some patients have persistent cough, difficulty breathing, or difficulty swallowing. Other symptoms (eg, pain, stridor, vocal cord paralysis, hemoptysis, rapid enlargement) are not common. These symptoms can be caused by less severe problems.
23571	Common symptoms are weight gain, fatigue, depression and constipation. Uncommon symptoms are legs inflammation, vague pains and aches, difficulty in concentrating and so on. Symptoms of thyroiditis may imitate other symptoms of diseases. For severe cases other symptoms show such as puffiness around the eyes, heart rate is slowing, temperature drops and eventually heart failure.
23572	The common symptoms of Tic Douleureux are extreme pain on the face including the eyes, mouth, nose, brain and jaws up to the brain.
23573	Affected individuals may have occasional twinges of mild pain, episodes of severe, shooting or jabbing pain, spontaneous pain attacks or attacks that are triggered by touching the face, chewing, speaking, and brushing teeth, pain that affects one side of the face at a time, and pain focused in one spot or spread in a wider pattern.
23574	Usually tick bites do not display any symptoms though it may be developed by tick secretions. Such symptoms are fever, headache, muscle pain, joint pain, fatigue and weakness of the muscle and reactions in the skin may include bumps that filled with pus, skin lumps that are hardened and some cases nodules that may require surgery if it grows too big.
23575	Tick paralysis arises from inoculation of a toxin from tick salivary glands during a blood meal. The toxin causes symptoms within 2-7 days, beginning with weakness in both legs that develops to paralysis. The paralysis ascends to trunk, arms, and head within hours and may cause respiratory failure and death. The disease can occur as acute ataxia without muscle weakness.
23576	During the first phase of the disease, the most common laboratory anomalies are a low white blood cell count (leukopenia) and a low platelet count (thrombocytopenia). Liver enzymes in the serum may also be mildly heightened. After the onset of neurologic disease during the second phase, a rise in the number of white blood cells in the blood and the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) is usually found
23578	The main signs of rib inflammation include chest pain, irregular heartbeat, numbness and stiffness of the ribs, difficulty in breathing and anxiety.
23579	Symptoms includes itching, hair loss in cases of tinea capitis, scaling of the soles.
23580	Men with tinea barbae experience itchy and white bumps in their beard area with possibly red skin around the area. If the condition is serious, the infection is inflamed appearing as pus-filled nodules that later form a crust possibly occurring along with swollen lymph nodes and fever.
23581	Tinea capitis is usually affects children who would experience having scalps with itchy, red, and bald-looking patches. These patches may be painful or tender and gradually expand.
23582	Individuals with tinea versicolor have small scaly patches of discolored skin that tend to be more noticeable after sun exposure. The patches may cause mild itching.
23583	Tinnitus involves the annoying sensation of hearing sounds in the ear when no external sound is present. Signs and symptoms may include noise in the ear, such as ringing, buzzing, roaring, whistling or hissing; and hearing loss.
23584	Children with chronic tiredness easily get burned out, loss of appetite and irritability. They may also suffer from cough and complain about not having enough strength to do their usual activities.
23585	The classic presentation of Todd's paresis is a temporary weakness of a hand, arm, or leg after partial seizure activity within that limb. When seizures affect areas other than the motor cortex, other transient neurological deficits can occur.
23586	Togaviridae disease may be asymptomatic. Symptoms that do occur include febrile illness, fever, headache, vomiting, drowsiness, irritability, nausea, confusion, weakness, stiff neck, seizures, chills, arthritic pain, rash, hemorrhagic fever, and flu-like symptoms.
23587	Symptoms are usually restricted to one hemisphere of the brain, and in most cases the individual effected will experience intense, sharp pain and paralysis of muscles around the eye.
23588	Symptoms of tongue neoplasm include: mouth ulcer, throat pain, sore throat, dysphagia, bleeding, throat ulcer, ulcerated sore on tongue, sore tongue, bleeding tongue lesion, reduced tongue movement, painful tongue lesion, and tongue lesion that fails to heal.
23589	Some individuals may experience a warning feeling before the occurrence of a grand mal seizure. During an attack, they may become unconscious, after which they become confused or lose bowel and bladder control and feel fatigue. A severe headache is commonly experienced by most individuals suffering from the condition.
23590	Severe sore throat Swallowing is painful or difficult Headache Fever Chills Voice has changed Tonsils look like swollen and red that may have purulent exudative coating of white patches
23591	Among the common signs of tooth decay are cavities, toothache, breakage and pain in the gums.
23592	Pain when chewing Sensitive to hot or cold drinks or drinks Tooth or gums are bleeding Swelling is evident around the tooth Jaw is swelling Throbbing pain that may come in go in the head, jaw or ear
23593	Symptoms of a TORCH infection may include fever and poor feeding. An enlarged liver and spleen (hepatosplenomegaly) is typical, as is the yellowish discoloration of the skin and eyes called jaundice. Hearing impairment, eye problems, mental retardation, autism, and death can be the result of TORCH infections.
23594	The affected individual experiences a popping sensation in the knee, after which swelling and pain occur. He or she may have trouble walking or bearing his or her weight on the affected knee especially if a flap of the torn cartilage has locked the knee joint.
23595	The patient's head is tilted toward one side, while the chin is elevated and pointed toward the other side. One-fourth of people affected with Torticollis are not aware until they are told about it.
23596	Torulopsis may be asymptomatic. Symptoms that occur include septicemia, vaginal itching and burning, sore vagina, white vaginal discharge, meningitis, pneumonia, cystitis, fungemia, urinary pain and burning, increased urination frequency, bladder pain, blood in urine, fever, coughing up of blood, sweating, shortness of breath, breathing difficulty, coughing, headache, tiredness, chills, breathlessness, and pain.
23598	The tics of Tourette's are stereotypic, temporarily suppressible, nonrhythmic, and often preceded by a premonitory urge. Immediately preceding tic onset, most individuals with Tourette's are aware of an urge that is similar to the desire to sneeze or scratch an itch. Persons describe the need to tic as a buildup of tension which they consciously choose to release, as if they "had to do it".
23599	Typical features of this condition are an obstruction of the anal opening (imperforate anus), abnormally shaped ears, and hand malformations that most often affect the thumb. Most people with this condition possess at least two of these three major features. Other possible signs and symptoms of TBS include kidney abnormalities, mild to profound hearing loss, heart defects, and genital malformations. These features vary among individuals affected with TBS, even within the same family. Mental retardation or learning disabilities have also been reported approximately 10 percent of people with Townes-Brocks syndrome.
23600	The patient may also experience other symptoms such as severe headaches, changes in vision, upper abdominal pain, nausea or vomiting, dizziness, and decreased urine output. She may also suddenly gain weight.
23601	A mild condition does not usually have noticeable problems. However, when signs and symptoms of toxic hepatitis occur, they are similar to those caused by other types of hepatitis such as jaundice, fatigue, loss of appetite, nausea and vomiting, weight loss, and dark or tea-colored urine.
23602	TSS resultant of infection with the bacteria Staphylococcus aureus typically manifests in otherwise healthy individuals with high fever, together with low blood pressure, malaise and confusion, which can rapidly progress to stupor, coma, and multi-organ failure. The characteristic rash, often seen early in the course of illness, is similar to a sunburn, and can involve any region of the body, including the lips, mouth, eyes, palms and soles.
23603	Symptoms of an infection include: weakness, pruritus (or itching), difficulty breathing, abdominal pain, and hyper-eosinophilia.
23604	Thought most primary infections produce no symptoms; the disease can affect the brain, lung, heart, eyes, or liver. Those with healthy immune systems may manifest enlarged lymph nodes in the head and neck, headache, mild illness with fever, sore throat, and muscle pain. Confusion, fever, headache, retinal inflammation causing blurred vision, and seizures may be found among immunosuppressed persons.
23605	The disease may damage the baby's eyes, skin, nervous system, and ears. Other sysmptoms may include anemia, enlarged liver, and spleen, jaundice, eye damage from inflammation of the retina, low birth weight, prematurity, and skin rash at birth. Physical examination may reveal signs of anemia, cerebral calcifications, hydrocephalus, lymphdenopathy, macrocephaly or microcephaly. Prenatal tests among pregnant women may include amniotic fluid testing, antibody titer, and ultrasound of the abdomen. During the later stage of the disease, hearing loss, mental retardation, seizures, neurological problems, and visual impairment.
23606	About 17-70% of children with TEF have associated developmental anomalies. Some of these anomalies include down syndrome, duodenal atresia, and cardiovascular defects. Cardiac anomalies may include ventricular septal defect, patent ductus arteriosus, tetralogy of Fallot, atrial septal defect, and right-sided aortic arch. Malignant TEFs may induce cough, aspiration, and fever. From onset to diagnosis, said symptoms usually last 12 days.
23607	The incubation of the bacteria causing the disease takes 5 t0 12 days. After the incubation the affected individual will experience symptoms of conjunctivitis, or irritation similar to the of "pink eye." Multiple episodes of reinfection also results from blinding endemic trachoma. Further symptoms include eye discharge, swollen eyelids, trichiasis (turned-in eyelashes), swelling of lymph nodes in front of the ears, corneal scarring, and further ear, nose and throat complications.
23609	Among the known symptoms of the disease are fatigue, pallor, reduced number of red blood cells, anemia, and rapid heart rate.
23610	The inability to assimilate certain, generally current or recent details is produced by TGA. Social skills and memories of distant past events meanwhile are maintained.
23611	Most signs and symptoms resemble those found early in a stroke but do not last longer than 24 hours. They may include sudden weakness, numbness, or paralysis in the face, arm or leg, typically on one side of the body; slurred or garbled speech or difficulty understanding others; sudden blindness in one or both eyes or double vision; and dizziness, loss of balance or coordination.
23614	Some of the symptoms that would indicate the need for surgery include blue or gray skin, lips, and nail beds (cyanosis), difficulty in breathing, problems with heart rate or rhythm, and excessive workload on heart that interferes with breathing, feeding, or sleeping.
23615	Symptoms of the disease include weakness and numbness of the limbs, motor, sensory, and sphincter deficits. Some patients may experience severe backpain at the onset of the disease. Leg weakness of varying degrees of severity is also commonly experienced by almost all patients. In a minority of cases, the arms are also involved, depending on the level of spinal cord involvement. A lot of patients also complain of a tight banding or girdle-like sensation around the trunk, which may also be very sensitive to touch.
23616	Travel sickness is shown by dizziness, vomiting and anxiety attacks before and during the travel. People also tend to be restless and lose balance and coordination while on travel.
23617	Nausea Abdominal pain Vomiting Diarrhea Sore throat and conjunctivitis Fever Dehydration Low temperature
23618	The disease has various symptoms ranging from almost unnoticeable to severe. Most however have underdeveloped facial bones resulting in a sunken appearance in the middle of the face. The affected individual also have a prominent nose, and a very small jaw. There are also cases where people with the disease are born with an opening in the roof of the mouth, which is called a cleft palate. Severe cases see patients with underdeveloped facial bones, which cause the restriction in the infant's airway causing potentially life-threatening respiratory problems.
23619	Though ET generally cause a rhythmic tremor that is only present when the affected muscle is exerting effort, some patients still complain about an especially coarse tremor upon waking up that becomes noticeable less coarse within the first few minutes of wakefulness. ET is also usually painless although there are times that tremors of the head and neck causes pain. Writing can also become painful for a person with hand tremors. Some people with ET also develop a raspy voice while their ET symptoms worsen over time.
23620	Gums are painful Gums are bleeding with the mildest pressure Gums are swollen and red Pain when swallowing or eating Gum has gray-film Ulcers among the teeth and gums Foul taste in the mouth Bad breath Fever Lymph nodes are swollen around the head, jaw, or neck
23620	Signs and symptoms of the condition develop rapidly, some of which include painful gums, bleeding from gums with the slightest pressure, red or swollen gums, pain when eating or swallowing, a gray film on the gums, crater-like sores between the teeth and on the gums, a foul taste in the mouth, bad breath, fever, and swollen lymph nodes around the head, neck, or jaw.
23621	In latent stage, symptoms of the disease can be aymptomatic. There can also be some painless skin chancre, painless mucosal chancre, polymorphic rash, and generalized maculopapular rash.
23622	Treponema pallidum, when transmitted to humans, initially causes primary syphilis symptoms. If the disease progresses, it may cause secondary, tertiary, or late syphilis symptoms. Primary syphilis symptoms include: painless open genital sores (or chancre); penis or vaginal ulcer; hand or mouth ulcer; anal ulcer; plus enlarged lymph nodes in the groin or throughout the body that may never return to normal. Approximately thirty percent of patients will develop secondary syphilis symptoms, which may include: the appearance of skin rashes and brown sores; formation of wart-like lumps in the genitalia; mild fever and other flu-like symptoms; headaches and fatigue; appetite loss; muscle aches; patchy hair loss; enlarged or swollen lymph glands; possible reappearance of chancre; plus mouth and genital ulcers. If the disease has advanced to tertiary syphilis, possible outcome includes the development of multiple non-malignant tumors, particularly in the skin, muscle, bone, brain, heart, liver, or stomach. Late syphilis symptoms manifest if the disease has progressed severely. Examples of such symptoms are: mental illness, blindness, neurologic problems, heart diseases, neurosyphilis, and even death.
23623	Trichnellosis involves the intestines and within 1-2 days of infection, nausea, heartburn, dyspepsia, and diarrhea may be experienced by the patient. The symptoms may be harsh depending on the extent of the infection. Other signs of the disease such as headache, fever, chills, cough, eye swelling, joint pain, muscle pain, petechiae, and itching may appear as the worms encyst in the other parts of the body.
23624	This disease involves the intestines and within 1-2 days of contagion, nausea, heartburn, dyspepsia, and diarrhea may be experienced by the affected individual. The symptoms may be severe depending on the extent of the infection. Other manifestations of the disease such as headache, fever, chills, cough, eye swelling, joint pain, muscle pain, petechiae, and itching may appear as the worms encyst in the other parts of the body.
23625	Among women, the symptoms include discomfort during intercourse, vaginal itching, greenish-yellow, frothy or foamy, vaginal discharge with a foul or strong smell, labial swelling or vulvar itching, and itching of the inner thighs. For men, burning after urination or ejaculation, itching of urethra and slight discharge from urethra are among the symptoms.
23626	There are quite a number of symptoms for the disease but the most common are fine, dark skin scales, retarded growth, mental retardation, and lack of subcutaneous fat. The less common symptoms include small cataracts, bone abnormalities, and teeth abnormalities.
23627	Symptoms of the disease usually begin before the age of 17. In most cases, the hair may come out in round patches or across the scalp, effecting to an uneven appearance. Others may also pluck other hairy areas. Among the other symptoms of the disorder are bare patches or all around loss of hair, bowel blockage if people eat the hair they pull out, constant tugging, pulling, or twisting of hair, denying the hair pulling, increasing sense of tension before the hair pulling, other self injury behaviors, and a sense of relief, pleasure, or gratification after the hair pulling.
23628	During the first 2 weeks of life, tachypnea may be experienced by the infant as well as poor feeding, progressive cyanosis, holosystolic murmur, superior axis and left ventricular hypertrophy. The heart size is normal though.
23629	Episodes of pain among people with the disease are sudden or occur paroxysmally. Patients usually describe a pain on the face that even touching it or air currents can trigger pain. According to Dr. Kim Burchiel, a neurological surgeon, people with the condition beg to be killed because of the pain they experience. The disease in fact has the moniker "the suicide disease." Pail also usually occurs when brushing teeth, chewing, drinking, eating, and shaving.
23630	Among the symptoms in this illness are numbness of the forearm, immobility of the fingers to move properly, and frequent cramps in the carpals. Extreme pain is also felt during strenuous activities.
23631	Patients primarily complain of painful clicking of the finger of popping of the proximal interphalangeal (PIP). Some may also complain of morning stiffness of the fingers without frank triggering. Other advanced involvement may lead to locking, usually in flexion, which must be released by passive manipulation with the other hand.
23632	If not broken down, trimethylamine builds up in the body and is released in a person's sweat, urine, reproductive fluids, and breath, giving off a strong fishy odor. Affected individuals appear healthy and do not have any other physical symptoms but do have a strong odor all the time. Experts cannot explain why the condition is more common among women but they are hypothesizing that it could be due to the female sex hormones progesterone and/or estrogen.
23633	Most cases present classic symptoms of primary adrenal sufficiency, which includes hypoglycemic seizures and shock. Patients also have a distinct facial appearance; they usually have a long thin face with a long philtrum, narrow upper lip, and a down-turned mouth. Microcephaly is also frequently associated with the disorder but it is still unclear if it is a primary manifestation or just a reflection of recurrent hypoglycemia and/or malnutrition.
23634	Females with this disorder do not exhibit any symptoms and can only be distinguished from normal XX females through karyotyping. However, women with Triple X syndrome are usually taller than average and their weight may be low in comparison to their height. Menstrual irregularities may be experienced and also have an increased risk of learning disabilities, delayed speech, and language skills.
23635	Among fetuses, a sonogram can reveal severe growth problems or intrauterine growth retardation (IUGR), abnormal placenta, and limb abnormalities. Other abnormal findings when using the sonogram include brain abnormalities, cleft lip and possible cleft palate, heart defects, kidney abnormalities, abdominal wall defects, neural tube defects, oligohydramnios, and placental abnormalities.
23636	In fetuses, a sonogram usually reveals severe growth problems or intrauterine growth retardation (IUGR), abnormal placenta, and limb abnormalities. Other abnormal sonogram findings include brain abnormalities, cleft lip and possible cleft palate, heart defects, kidney abnormalities, abdominal wall defects, neural tube defects, oligohydramnios, and placental abnormalities.
23637	Symptoms of the disease include neonatal hypotonia followed by hypertonia, jitteriness, apnea, and seizures. Cranial abnormalities such as microcephaly, elongated skull, narrow bifrontal diameter, wide fontanels, and prominent occiput may be observed in patients. Facial abnormalities may also be present, which includes narrow palatal arch, infrequent cleft lip and cleft palate, preauricular tags and low-set, malformed ears.
23638	Children with the condition share common features such as flattened facial features, protruding tongue, small head, unusual upward slanting eyes, and unusually shaped ears. They may also have poor muscle tone, broad, short hands with a single crease in the palm, relatively short fingers, excessive flexibility, delayed and stunted growth. They may also be either mildly or moderately mentally retarded.
23639	Continued vaginal bleeding is a possible symptom in women with a recent history of hydatidiform mole, abortion, or pregnancy. Other symptoms include irregular vaginal bleeding, certain types of cysts on the ovaries, uneven swelling of the uterus, persistently high HCG levels, and pain.
23640	Women usually experience continued vaginal bleeding particularly those with a recent history of hydatidiform mole, abortion, or pregnancy. Among the other symptoms are irregular vaginal bleeding, certain types of cysts on the ovaries, uneven swelling of the uterus, persistently high HCG levels, and pain.
23641	The most common symptoms of the disease are abdominal cramps, diarrhea, excessive gas, indigestion, irritability, muscle cramps, numbness, paleness, and weight loss. Among children, sprue may lead to delay in the maturing of bones and growth failure.
23642	The disorder manifests itself in different ways. Some experience it all the time while some respond to direct stimuli.
23643	The common symptoms of the disease are red sore at the fly bite site, chancre, insomnia, daytime sleepiness, and fever.
23644	Just like East African trypanosomiasis, the West type symptoms include a red sore at the site of the bite, chancre, insomnia, fever, and daytime sleepiness.
23645	Disseminated tuberculosis symptoms include cough, fatigue, fever, general discomfort or uneasiness, sweating, shortness of breath, and weight loss. Abdominal swelling, chills, joint pain, paleness, and swollen glands may also be manifested.
23646	There are several symptoms related to Tuberculous meningitis namely seizures, fever, listlessness, loss of appetite, severe headache, nausea and vomiting, stiff neck, sensitivity to light or photophobia, and loss of consciousness.
23647	TB symptoms include chest pain, coughing up blood, and a productive and prolonged cough for more than 3 weeks. Affected individuals also manifest systemic symptoms such as fever, chills, appetite loss, night sweats, pallor, weight loss, and often a tendency to fatigue very easily.
23648	Tuberous sclerosis has several symptoms namely seizures, developmental delay, behavioral problems, skin abnormalities, lung and kidney disease. More specific symptoms include ash leaf spots on the skin, less often, cafΘ-au-lait spots, shagreen spots on the skin, red, highly vascular lumps on the face, mental retardation, seizures, rough growths under or around fingernails and toenails, pitted dental enamel, and kidney tumors.
23649	People with the disease experience various symptoms namely chills, enlarged lymph nodes, fever, headache, joint stiffness, muscle pains, possible conjunctivitis, red spot on the skin, shortness of breath, sweating, and weight loss. ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Other clinical syndromes include ulceroglandular, glandular, oropharyngeal, pneumonic, oculoglandular, and typhoidal.
23650	In humans, tularemia presents with lethargy, anorexia, septicemia, and moderate to high fever. Skin lesions are another characteristic clinical sign of tularemia. The face and eyes of infected patients may redden or become visibly enflamed. This inflammation can potentially spread to the lymph nodes, which enlarge and may even suppurate. In rare cases, the infection may lead to death of the affected patient.
23651	Tummy ache itself is a symptom, and indication of another existing medical ailment.
23652	Tungiasis symptoms include severe proritos, pain, inflammation and swelling, lesions and ulcerations with black dots in the center. If left untreated, secondary infections such as bacteremia, tetanus, and gangrene can occur. Extreme itching will also be experienced by the affected individual. There are also discharges from the ulcer or bump.
23653	Some symptoms of the syndrome include headache, vomiting, nausea, personality and behavior changes, mood swings, loss of memory, seizures, reduced alertness, vision problems, hearing loss, decreased sensation of a body area, lethargy, general ill feeling, decerebrate posture, and decorticate posture.
23654	In young infants, the possible symptoms are swollen hands and feet as well as wide and webbed neck. Among older females, a combination of several symptoms may be seen. Among those are absent or incomplete development at puberty, broad, flat chest shaped like a shield, drooping eyelids, infertility, no periods, short height and vaginal dryness that can lead to painful intercourse.
23655	The donor twin, usually the smaller one, become hypovolemic and oliguric or anuric.
23656	The symptoms of Tylenol overdose are vomiting and nausea, as well as high fever and chills during the first 12-24 hours after the illness has taken effect. Then the body temperature goes down, and indication that the drug is already taking over the liver.
23657	Typhoid fever is characterized by a sustained fever as high as 40░C (104░F), profuse sweating, gastroenteritis, and non-bloody diarrhea. Less commonly a rash of flat, rose-colored spots may appear. Other symptoms include fatigue, weakness, delirium, chills, bloody stools, and abdominal tenderness.
23658	Symptoms for Epidemic typhus include severe headache, a sustained high fever, cough, rashes, severe muscle pain, chills, decreasing blood pressure, stupor, sensitivity to light, and delirium. Rashes usually begin on the chest about five days after the fever appears. It then spreads to the trunk and extremities but does not reach the palms and soles. Fever may reach up to 39░C (102░F). Endemic typhus meanwhile has the following symptoms: headache, fever, chills, myalgia, nausea, vomiting, and cough. Fever is also a symptom for scrub typhus. Other manifestations include headache, muscle pain, cough, and gastrointestinal symptoms. Stronger strains of O. tsutsugamushi can cause hemorrhaging and intravascular coagulation.
23659	Type I symptoms usually manifest in the first few months of life and include failure to gain weight and grow at the expected rate (failure to thrive), diarrhea, vomiting, yellowing of the skin and whites of the eyes (jaundice), cabbage-like odor, and increased tendency to bleed (particularly nosebleeds). This type of tyrosinemia can lead to liver and kidney failure, problems affecting the nervous system, and an increased risk of liver cancer. Symptoms of Type II tyrosinemia often begin in early childhood. Among the symptoms are excessive tearing, abnormal sensitivity to light (photophobia), eye pain and redness, and painful skin lesions on the palms and soles. Mental retardation is a characteristic of about 50% of individuals with Type II tyrosinemia. Type III meanwhile has features that include mild mental retardation, seizures, and periodic loss of balance and coordination (intermittent ataxia).
23661	UHL symptoms include dyspnoea, fatigue, chest pain, syncope on exertion, and non-specific systolic murmur. The latter can be a cause of cardiac failure and sudden death in neonates and young adults.
23662	Some of the symptoms or characteristics of the disease are retarded growth, missing arm bones, missing leg bones, mesomalia, fused forearm bones, radiohumeral fusion, anomalies of the external genitalia, and potter-like facies.
23663	Affected individuals usually experience pain. When the condition is severe, the person may vomit red or black blood, have dark blood in stools or black or tarry stools, nausea or vomiting, unexplained weight loss, and chest pain.
23664	Affected individuals usually experience pain. When the condition is severe, the person may vomit red or black blood, have dark blood in stools or black or tarry stools, nausea or vomiting, unexplained weight loss, and chest pain.
23665	The condition is categorized based on severity. At stage I a pressure sore appears as a persistent area of red skin that may itch or hurt and feel warm and spongy or firm to the touch. At stage II, some skin loss may have already occurred. At stage III the damage has extended to the tissue below the skin that creates a deep, crater-like wound. Stage IV is the most serious in which the wounds are difficult to heal and may lead to lethal infection.
23666	Affected individuals usually experience pain. When the condition is severe, the person may vomit red or black blood, have dark blood in stools or black or tarry stools, nausea or vomiting, unexplained weight loss, and chest pain.
23667	Symptoms of ulcerative colitis include diarrhea, abdominal pain, abdominal sounds, fever, weight loss, and tenesmus. Other symptoms associated with Ulcerative colitis are nausea and vomiting, joint pain, and gastrointestinal bleeding.
23668	The disease has various symptoms namely keratotic papules, scars, atrophy, alopecia, and hyperkeratosis.
23670	The disorder usually starts in early in childhood. At first, the hair looks thin and glassy, then it becomes drier, curlier, and lighter in color. It eventually becomes increasingly uncombable. The condition only affects scalp hair. Under magnification, the disease had two defining features namely triangular or almost kidney bean cross section and the other is longitudal groove or canal that runs along the length of the hair. Another possible side effect of UHS is partial baldness since the hair is not always anchored in the hair follicle properly. UHS, unlike other hair combability conditions, is not associated with any physical, neurologic, or mental abnormalities.
23671	People with UPD may develop rare recessive disorders or developmental problems due to the effects of imprinting.
23672	There are several symptoms associated with Upington disease but the most common are coax vera, pelvis anomaly, absent femur, poor joint mobility, and enchondromata.
23673	The symptoms of Urinary Tract Infections include rhinosinusitis or common cold, tonsilitis, pharyngitis, bronchitis, nasal congestion, running nose, sore throat, fever, facial pressure and sneezing.
23674	Symptoms of this type of cancer may not be noticed until the cancer has been there for sometimes. Symptoms include blood in the uterine, pain or discomfort between the public area and the tummy button, difficulties passing urine, mucus in the urine, and bleeding or discharge from the tummy button.
23675	Children with urachal cyst do not show symptoms but are detected with increasing frequency as an incidental finding during bladder ultrasonography. The symptoms are also generally related to infection and the result of inflammation, which include suprapubic mass, fever, pain, and bladder or irritative voiding symptoms.
23676	The disease is characterized by mental retardation, short stature, hand contractures, obesity, and increased muscle tone. Among is less common symptoms are undescended testes, behavioral problems, kidney stones, small jaw, and small ear.
23677	Neonatal period: Baby may be easily irritated accompanied by vomiting and increased lethargy followed by seizures, hypotonia, respiratory diseases and coma. These usually happen during the first 24 hours. Childhood: Early symptoms, hyperactive behaviour and refusal to eat meat or foods that is high in protein. Later symptoms include recurrent episodes of vomiting, lethargy and delirium and in worst cases death and coma. Adulthood: stroke-like symptoms, lethargy episodes and delirium.
23678	Early symptoms include anorexia and lethargy, and late symptoms can include decreased mental acuity and coma. There are quite a number of other symptoms related to the disease namely confusion, decreased or no urine produced, dry mouth, fatigue, pale skin color, rapid pulse, swelling, thirst, excessive urination at night, and abdominal pain.
23679	Symptoms includes back pain. Bloody urine, burning pain during urination, fatigue, frequent urination, sudden weight loss and flank pain.
23680	Symptoms of the urethral stricture includes dysuria, urinating difficulty, spray of urine stream, decreased urine, pelvic pain,dark urine, lower abdominal pain, swelling of the penis, discharge from the urethra and urinary retention.
23681	Its symptoms includes difficulty in starting to urinate, slow stream of urine, feeling of incomplete draining of the bladder, vaginal discharge and lesions.
23682	Symptoms includes discharge of a milky or pus like in the penis, burning sensation during urination, itching and irritation.
23683	Affected individuals unintentionally lose urine immediately after an urgent need to urinate.
23684	Some of the symptoms of the disease include failure to thrive, apathy, mental retardation, lassitude, and repeated functions.
23685	Kidney stones have various symptoms namely colicky pain, hematuria, dysuria, oliguria, and nausea and vomiting.
23686	Stress incontinence: release of urine due to coughing, sneezing, laughing, exercising or lifting heavy objects. Urge incontinence: the release of urine cannot be controlled which is sudden and intense. Overflow in continence: the bladder is not properly drained or emptied which lead to overflow. Functional incontinence: physical or mental injury keeps the individual from making it to the toilet in time Gross total incontinence: continuous leaking of urine, day and night.
23687	Symptoms for urinary incontinence is manifested by way of the childs inability to detect urinary flow and often wets his clothes.
23688	Symptoms for mild urinary retention can include discomfort and pain. The patient will feel the need to urinate but they can't resulting to a bloated lower belly. The flow is also weak and could not feel complete satisfaction.
23689	Symptoms includes occurrence of haematuria, pain on urination, pelvic pain, abdominal pain and pain in the loin.
23690	Bladder infection: frequent urination, urethritis, nocturia, pain in the midline suprapubic region, pyuria, hematuria, pyrexia, foul-smelling and cloudy urine, protein found in the urine Kidney infection: bladder infection symptoms, vomiting, back, side or groin pain, abdominal pressure or pain, shaking chills and high spiking fever, night sweats and intense exhaustion.
23690	Not all individuals with urinary tract infection have been known to develop any detectible signs or symptoms of urinary tract infection. However, the usual signs include a burning sensation when urinating, persistent urge to urinate, small amounts of urine and blood in the urine.
23691	Among the symptoms are dysuria, abdominal growth, increased frequency, haematuria, and abdominal pain.
23692	The normal color of the urine can greatly vary depending of the water intake of the person. This is because fluid dilutes the pigments that are present in the urine, so when you drink more water, the urine becomes clearer.
23693	Symptoms includes pain in urinating and in the lower abdomen.
23694	There is no definitive neurometabolic established connecting the disorder with mental retardation. There are aggressive behavior and mental retardation cases however, that have been reported to be associated with the disease.
23695	The signs and symptoms of urogenital adysplasia syndrome vary from individual to individual but most people diagnosed with urogenital adysplasia syndrome have anomalies in their urinary and reproductive tract. Missing kidneys and uterine abnormalities are the most common findings. There are specific features however namely one or two missing kidneys, one or two malformed kidneys, bladder anomalies, hypertension, vaginal anomalies, uterine anomalies, fallopian tube anomalies, lack of menstrual period, and cyst of the seminal vesicle. ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Causes The disease is an autosomal dominant inherited condition and is referred to as hereditary renal adysplasia (HRA), renal agenesis, and bilateral agenesis (BRA). ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Treatment The disease has no specific treatment that can remove, cure, or fix its underlying genetic error. Treatment therefore is limited to the management of specific symptoms. For those with only one kidney, a nephrologist should evaluate their need for antihypertensive agents and/or kidney transplant. ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Diagnosis A physical examination by a medical geneticist or other physician aid in the diagnosis of Urogenital adysplasia. Parents and siblings of infants born with the disease may undergo ultrasonographic screening since the diagnosis can have implications for their health and medical care.
23696	Welts, which are red-colored and have defined edges, appear on the skin's surface. It is possible for these swelling skin to spread, enlarge, and join together and form bigger uredos. These may also alter their shapes or disappear and appear again after a few minutes or even hours. Pressing the center of welt changes its color to white.
23697	The disease is characterized by excessive amounts of mast cells in the skin. Often seen on the skin are red or brown spots typically around the chest and forehead area. When rubbed or exposed to heat, the mast cells produce too much histamine that could trigger an allergic reaction. It could also lead to hives localized to the area of irritation, which is sometimes referred to as Darier's sign. The symptoms can range from mil to life-threatening.
23698	The common symptom for MWS is inflammation all over the body, which includes, fever, arthritis, and malaise. The chronic inflammation associated with MWS can lead to deafness. Prolonged inflammation can also lead to deposition of proteins in the kidney, a condition known as amyloidosis.
23699	Usher syndrome has several symptoms but the most common are hearing loss and an eye disorder called retinitis pigmentosa, or RP. The disorder causes night-blindness and a loss of peripheral vision (side vision) through the progressive degeneration of the retina. As the disorder progresses, the field of vision narrows. Said condition is known as "tunnel vision"-until only central vision (the ability to see straight ahead) remains. Most Usher syndrome patients also have severe balance problems.
23700	Usher syndrome type 1C is a rare inherited disorder characterized by sensorineural deafness and progressive vision loss, which starts during the first decade of life. The disorder is listed as a "rare disease" by the Office of Rare Diseases (ORD) of the National Institutes of Health (NIH), which means that Usher syndrome, type 1C, or its subtype affects less than 200,000 people in the US population.
23701	Difficulty in urinating Abnormal vaginal bleeding or discharge Pain in the pelvis Pain during intercourse
23701	Uterine cancer develops gradually over a period of years. An abnormal bleeding in the vagina is the most common early symptom of this cancer. Other symptoms of uterine cancer include: prolonged periods or bleeding in between periods; frequent bleeding or spotting in the years prior to menopause; any bleeding that occurs during the time of menopause; intense pelvic pain; pain during sexual intercourse; and unintended weight loss.
23702	Abnormal gynaecologic hemorrhage Painful or heavy periods Discomfort or bloating of the abdomen Back ache Frequent urination or urinary retention Infertility (in some cases)
23702	The symptoms of uterine fibroids include abnormally heavy menstrual bleeding, urinary incontinence, constipation, pelvic pressure, leg pains an backache, and prolonged menstrual cycle.
23703	The symptoms of uterine growths are menstrual pain, heavy bleeding during menstruation, discomfort during sexual activity, urinary tract infections and in some cases, infertility.
23704	Uterine prolapse can greatly vary in its severity. Symptoms can include tissue that protrudes in the vagina, urinary difficulties, low back pain, constipation as well as the general discomforts usually felt when sitting.
23705	There are some women who have uterus didelphys but never realize it. Symptoms include mass in the pelvis, abnormal bleeding during menstruation as well as unusual pain felt before and during menstruation.
23706	Symptoms of Uveitis include redness of the eye, blurred vision, sensitivity to light, dark floating spots along the visual field, and eye pain.
23707	Anterior uveitis signs/symptoms may include a red, sore, and inflamed eye, blurring of vision, sensitivity to light and a small pupil.
23708	Decreased vision, distortion of size and shapes of objects seen, pain and redness, floaters or floating black spots may be seen in the field vision, and sensitivity to light are among the symptoms of posterior Uveitis.
23709	Each letter of the acronym stands for a symptom of the disease. V stands for vertebrae, which are abnormal, A stands for anal atresia, C is for cardiac/heart defects, T stands for tracheoesophageal fistula, E for esophageal atresia, R is for renal/kidney defects and L is for limb or arm defects.
23710	Clincial features of the disease include skin abrasions or excoriations and abnormal skin discoloration on the affected site.
23711	In early stages, vaginal cancer may not exhibit any symptoms. As the carcinoma progresses, it may present with the following symptoms: unusual vaginal bleeding; lump or mass growing in the vagina; bleeding after sexual intercourse; watery and foul-smelling vaginal discharges; frequent urination; blood in urine; constipation; and pelvic pain.
23711	In the early stages of vaginal cancer, there are no detectable symptoms. However, as the cancer progressions, signs may include frequent urination, constipation, pelvic pain, mass or lump in the vagina, as well as watery vaginal discharges.
23712	Symptoms for vaginal atrophy include abnormal dryness and burning sensation of the genitalia, watery vaginal discharges, burning sensation during urination, urinary tract infections, light bleeding during sexual intercourse and general discomfort during intercourse.
23713	Symptoms includes abnormal and unusual vaginal discharge which ranges from white and chunky discharg, vaginal bleeding, redness of vagina and itching of the labia, painful urination and painful intercourse.
23714	Women suffering from PID experience extreme pelvic pain, discomfort during sexual activity as well as infection of the urinary tract. Bleeding, nausea and vomiting are also present during the onset of the disease.
23715	The symptoms of vaginal dryness include itching and burning sensation, a feeling of pressure, light bleeding and pain during sexual intercourse and increase frequency of urination.
23716	Symptoms includes urine leakage, incontinence, vaginal discharge, flack pain, pelvic pain and abdominal pain.
23717	Vaginal pain during sexual intercourse or an attempted pelvic exam is one of the common symptoms of vaginismus. This makes penetration during sex difficult or impossible.
23718	Symptoms of vaginitis may include color, odor or amount of discharge changes from the vagina, itching and irritation of the vagina, pain during intercourse, urinating is painful and mild vaginal bleeding.
23718	The symptoms of vaginitis may include the change in the color as well as the odor of the vaginal discharges, pain during sexual intercourse, painful urination and light vaginal bleeding. There are also certain types of vaginitis that can include foul-smelling discharges that are usually gray in color.
23719	Among the symptoms of Valinemia are vomiting, hypotonia, growth retardation, failure to thrive, and poor feeding.
23720	Symptoms is evident after three weeks of exposure which are fever, cough, chest pain, chills, night sweats, headache, fatigue, shortness of breath, joint aches and red, spotty rash.
23720	The symptoms for acute valley fever is often few. Signs and symptoms usually occur one to three weeks after exposure and tend to resemble those of a flu, which can range form minor to severe. Among those symptoms are fever, cough, chest pain, chills, night sweats, headache, fatigue, shortness of breath, joint aches, and red, spotty rash.
23721	Most people with this disorder are born with a cleft lip, a cleft palate, or both. They also usually have depressions or pits near the center of the lower lip, which may appear moist due to the presence of salivary and mucous glands in the pits. The lower lip may also show small mounds of tissue on the lower. There are cases where people with van der Woude syndrome have missing teeth.
23722	The very frequent and common signs of the disorder are anemia, absence or abnormality of the clavicle, difficulties in feeding during infancy, high-vaulted or narrow palate, narrow-sloping shoulders, downturned mouth, platelet disorders, talipes-varus/valgus, short stature or dwarfism, hypoplastic thumb, and hyperglycemia among others.
23724	The most common manifestation of the syndrome is an extra digit on the fingers or toes, which is usually a small piece of tissue and occasionally may contain a bone without joints.
23725	A pregnant woman usually contracts mild infection with few or no symptoms. Fever and poor feeding are the symptoms among children as well as a petechial rash on the skin, with small reddish or purplish spots due to bleeding from capillaries under the skin. Another common syndrome is an enlarged liver and spleen, jaundice, hearing impairment, eye problems, mental retardation, autism, and death.
23726	The child will usually break out with rashes on the trunk after 1-2 days of mild prodromal symptoms. Among teenagers and adults, high fevers and the development of pneumonia are common.
23727	The time between the virus exposure and eruption of its symptoms is known as the incubation period. This usually ranges from 10-20 days for chicken pox. Typically, patients may experience accompanying symptoms such as headache, fever, flu-like symptoms as well as swollen glands along with the rashes. As the rashes gradually break out, all other symptoms will eventually subside. The great news is, chicken pox occurs only once, although in certain cases a second but rather mild breakout may happen..
23728	Symptoms includes aching pain in the scrotum, feeling of heaviness of the testicles, infertility, atropy amd enlarged veins.
23729	Achy or heavy sensation in the legs Swelling in the lower legs Pain in the lower leg that is throbbing and burning Extended hours of sitting and standing make the legs worse Itching around the veins Skin ulcers near the ankle (for severe cases)
23729	In mild cases, people may not feel any pain but in advanced stages, the patient can feel heavy and achy feeling in the legs as well as the throbbing and muscle cramping of the lower legs. The condition may aggravate from prolonged standing and sitting. The physical manifestation of varicose veins includes the blue and purple appearance of views that appear bulging and twisted and can be very unsightly.
23730	Most of those affected with the condition never experience symptoms but when they do, it can include acute attacks, skin damage, or both. The acute attacks may cause abdominal pain, vomiting, diarrhea, and constipation and these usually begin in adulthood. Affected individuals may experience muscle weakness, seizures, andmental changes such as anxiety and hallucinations.
23731	The symptoms of smallpox would usually appear after 12 to 14 days of incubation. Among the other symptoms include fever, headache, sever fatigue, body discomfort, vomiting and diarrhea. Flat, red lesions may appear like rashes but will develop as pus pustules.
23732	Men who are missing both vas deferens suffer from a condition known as azzospermia. Meaning, they are able to create sperm but are unable to transport them appropriately; and their semen do not contain any sperm.
23733	Vascular dementia symptoms usually vary, which may greatly depend on the portion of the affected brain. Common symptoms include problems with memory and language, confusion and agitation, personality and mood changes, urinary frequency and incontinence.
23734	Though common, purpura is an unspecific symptom itself, which appears among people with certain diseases such as vasculitis hypersensitivity.
23735	Vasculitis patients are usually found with systemic symptoms with single or multiorgan dysfunction. Common but nonspecific complaints include fatigue, weakness, fever, arthralgias, abdominal pain, hypertension, renal insufficiency, and neurologic dysfunction. The following symptoms should also raise a strong suspicion of vasculitis: mononeuritis multiplex, palpable purpura, and pulmonary-renal syndrome.
23736	Normally painful and palpable petechiae or purpura is the common symptom of the condition. The purpura or skin vasculitis normally arise on crops, with common localizations on the forearms and legs. Lesions with black or brown centres usually result from necrosis of skin. The disorder sometimes affects nerves, the kidneys, joints and the heart. Also common is renal involvement.
23737	Symptoms includes general weakness, disturbance in the person's vision, unusual sweating, nausea, dizziness, fainting, low blood pressure and fever.
23738	Those affected with Vasovagal syncope typically have recurrent episodes especially when exposed to a specific trigger. The primary episode often happens when the person is a teenager, and then recurs in clusters throughout his or her life. The person frequently experiences a prodome of symptoms such as lightheadedness, nausea, sweating, ringing in the ears, and visual disturbances before losing consciousness. The symptoms usually last for a few seconds before passing out.
23739	There are exactly no specific symptoms linked to this kind of birth defect inasmuch as each infant having this kind of disease can be different from the other who is also suffering the same kind of condition. Usually infants having the Vater Syndrome are born unusually small and have problem gaining weight. However, babies with this kind of rare condition tend to have a normal development and normal intelligence. The Vater Syndrome is often link to conditions such as the Kippel Feil and Goldenhar Syndrome including the crossovers of conditions.
23740	Person suffering from this kind of disease may suffer from a wide range of symptoms, the most prevalent are the following: Congenital heart Disease, this symptom is usually the most common especially tetralogy of fallot, interrupted aortic arch and ventricular septal defect; Palatal Abnormalities especially velopharyngeal Incompetence or the VPI, submucosal cleft palate and cleft palate including hypertelorism; Difficulty in learning and even autism; Immune Deficiency which causes the reoccurring viral and fungal infections due to the immune system's T-cell mediated response because of the absence of hypoplasiac thymus; Hypocalcemia; Renal anomalies; hearing loss which may be both conductive and sensorineural and layngotracheoesophageal anomalies; Growth hormone deficiency, skeletal abnormalities.
23741	Symptoms may range from mild problems in timing of closure during speech. It also manifested by the inability of the person to achieve closure of the palate regardless of speaking rate and phonetic context (Kent, Raymond (1992). Intelligibility in Speech Disorders, John Benjamin Publishing Co., p. 276).
23742	The symptoms of venereal warts include small, flesh colored swellings in the genital area, warts that take a form of cauliflower shape, bleeding during intercourse, itching and general discomfort.
23744	It is usually asymptomatic or does not have any obvious manifestation or symptoms. There is also no obvious triggers are known and severity frequency of events varies.
23746	Most infants with VSD are asymptomatic until pulmonary vascular resistance begins to fall at approximately 4- 25 weeks of age. At this point, the infant normally breathes more rapidly and show signs of cyanosis, feeds poorly and is diaphoretic (Porth, Carol (2006) Essential of Pathophysiology: Concepts of Altered Health States, Lippincott Williams and Wilkins, p. 413).
23747	Severe itching, tearing, burning, mucoid discharge and photopobia may occur perennially but are characteristically worse during spring and summer months.
23748	The main characteristic of veruccas is the development of the warts on the plantar area. The warts may bleed when tried to be lacerated, and may cause pain in walking.
23749	Its symptoms of the Vesicoureteral Reflux are the same as those that manifest in person affected with Urinary Tract Infections thus, there is pain in urinating, lower abdomen pain and dark urine.
23750	Symptoms includes episodes of vertigo, nausea, dizziness, loss of balance, sudden weight loss and fever.
23751	Symptoms brought about by the Vibrio includes the presence of gastroenteritis which manifest through occurrence of diarrhea, numbness of the wound, high fever, chilling and myalgia.
23752	Symptoms includes diarrhea, nausea, cramping, vomiting, fever and chills.
23753	Symptoms includes diarrhea, abdominal pain and occurrence of blistering dermatitis.
23754	Symptoms includes swollen and usually bleeding gums, fetid breath and malaise.
23755	Symptoms of Vincent's stomatitis include painful gums, bleeding of the gums at the slightest pressure, gray films, bad breath, fever, swollen lymph nodes, foul taste in the mouth and pain when eating and swallowing.
23757	Symptoms of Vipoma often include prolonged watery diarrhea and hypokalemia and dehydration due to excess amounts of VIP. Other symptoms include the following, to wit: Lethargy, weakness of the muscle, nausea, frequent vomiting and muscle cramp like abdominal pain are also some of the symptoms seen.
23758	Symptoms includes the occurrence of watery and bloody diarrhea, weakness and dehydration.
23759	Symptoms for viral exanthem manifests as s widespread rash with pink-to-red colored spots often affecting primarily on the legs, the trunk, and the arms. It is not itchy, with fever, loss of appetite, fatigue, irritability, headache, other aches and pains.
23760	Symptoms may appear after one to three days of being infected and infection can be mild or severe. Diarrhea (watery and non-bloody) Cramps and pain in the abdomen Vomiting, nausea or both Headaches or muscle aches (occasional) Low-grade fever
23760	Symptoms may appear after one to three days of being infected and infection can be mild or severe. Diarrhea (watery and non-bloody) Cramps and pain in the abdomen Vomiting, nausea or both Headaches or muscle aches (occasional) Low-grade fever
23760	Symptoms includes watery diarrhea, cramps in the abdomen, cramps, nausea, vomiting, muscle aches and fever.
23761	Specific signs and symptoms typically vary by type of the viral hemorrhagic fever. However, the initial symptoms often include fatigue, high fever, bouts of dizziness, loss of strength, muscle aches and exhaustion. Some patients with severe cases often show signs of bleeding under the skin as well as in the internal organs or body orifices like the eyes, mouth. Sever cases may also include symptoms of seizures and delirium.
23762	The symptoms of Viral Hemorrhagic Fever include fever and bleeding diathesis. It also becomes manifest through often flushing of the face and chest, petechiae, frank bleeding, edema, hypotension and shock. It may also become manifest through frequent vomiting and headache and diarrhea.
23763	Its symptoms includes loss of appetite, nausea, vomiting, weakness, tiredness, aching in the abdomen, jaundice, fever, dark urine, fever and light colored feces.
23764	Symptoms of viral meningitis includes headaches, rigidity and pain in the neck, photophobia, phonophobia, delirium, irritability, seizures and swelling of the fontanelle.
23766	Night blindness is the most common symptom but can progress to xeropthalmia that is accompanied with the development of gray plaques. If it goes untreated puncture, scarring and may lead to blindness. In infant with severe vitamin A deficiency show failure to grow and lack of interest accompanied by genitourinary tract.
23766	Symptoms of Vitamin A deficiency includes occurrence of infection of the respiratory sysem, diarrhea, decrease in the growth rate of the person, slow bone development and the inability of the body to fight infections.
23767	Symptoms includes nausea, orange color of the skin, loss of appetite, headache, peelings of the skin, tiredness, hair loss, irregularity of menstrual cycle and enlarged liver and spleen.
23768	Symptoms often include seborrheic dermatitis like eruption, atrophic glossitis with ulceration, neurologic symptoms of somnolence and neuropathy (Andrews' Diseases of the Skin, 10th Edition, Elsevier). It includes angular stomatitis, cheilosis, glossitis, peripheral neuropathy, irritability, confusion and anemia. More specifically it also includes inflammation of the tongue, lesion of the lips and corners of the mouth (Desai, B.B Handbook of Nutritious Diet, p. 103) In severe Vitamin B6 deficiency convulsive sizure usually occurs (Russel, P., Williams, A (1995). The Nutrition and Health Dictionary, Jones and Barlett Publishers, p. 362)
23769	Symptoms includes decreased mental work capacity, decreased in concentration and memory, irritability, depression, tiredness, weakness, numbness and tingling of extremities.
23770	Its symptoms usually develop slowly and take time to be notice. The most prevalent symptoms are the following: weakness especially in the arms and legs, sore tongue, nausea, loss of appetite and weight loss, numbness or tingling in the hands and feet, difficulty in maintaining proper balance, pale lips, tongue and gums, yellowish eyes and skin, bleeding of the gums, shortness of breathing, depression, confusion, poor memory and dementia, headache and tinnitus or the ringing of the ear.
23771	Symptoms include shortness of breathing, pain in the bone, myalagias, roughness of the skin, bruising, petechiae, gum disease, poor wound healing, changes in emotion, dry mouth and eyes, jaundice, fever and convulsions.
23772	Symptoms include occurrence of rickets, deformity of the long bones, thinning of the bones, osteomalacia, osteoporosis and weakness and fragility of the bones including susceptibility to chronic diseases such as high blood pressure, cancer and periodontal diseases among others.
23773	Symptoms includes excessive calcium absorption, calcification, urinary stones and muscle cramps and pain.
23774	Clinical signs and symptoms includes bowed diaphysis, dolicho or scaphocephaly, enamel of the teeth anomaly, late eruption of the teeth, multiple exostoses, short height and stature and even dwarfism.
23775	Symptoms include sore tongue and mouth, pale skin, loss of appetite, numbness, mental confusion, diarrhea, and muscle weakness. This time of deficiency are sometimes very slow to develop and can be subtle at first and worsens as the deficiency increases.
23776	In infants, low birth weight is often one common sign of the condition. Intestinal disorders like Chron's Disease, cystic fibrosis are also prevalent inasmuch as this result from the person's malabsorption of vitamin E (Farrell, P and Roberts R. (1994). Vitamin E. In: Shills M, Olson JA and Shike M., ed. Modern Nutrition in Health and Disease, 8th ed. pp.326-341).
23777	Symptoms often vary from one case to another. However, in addition to the nurological symptoms , eye abnormalities, cardiomyopathy and abnormal curving of the spine or the scoliosis are observed. Its prevalent features are similar to the Friedrieich ataxia
23778	Symptoms may inlcude weakness, headache, blurred vision, bleeding, nausea, flatulence and diarrhea.
23779	Symptoms includes weakness, dizziness and susceptibility to chronic illnesses.
23780	Signs of this skin condition includes the sudden or gradual appearance of flat areas of a rather normal kin with complete loss of pigmentation. Lesions appear in that flat areas with no pigment and darker border are seen and its edges are irregular and sharply defined. It is commonly seen in the face, elbows hands, feet and the genitalia.
23781	Clinical manifestation of VKH vary and the complete syndrome does not always develop inasmuch as some patients shows characteristic ocular signs and symptoms but do not have skin or auditory involvement while others have typical ocular findings plus skin or auditory involvement (Garner, A., Klintworth, G. (1994) Pathobiology of Ocular Disease: A Dynamic Approach, Informal Health Care, p. 174). However, common symptoms include decrease in vision, floaters, ocular pain, redness and photopobia.
23782	Symptoms include low blood sugar or hypoglycemia, lethargy or lack of energy and weakness of the muscle. Symptoms that begin later in childhood, adolescence or even in adulthood normally involve heart problems. It is also characterized by fasting induced hypokelotic hypoglycemia, sncephalopathy and mild heap tomegaly and exercise-induced muscle pain, rhabdomyolysis and elevated creatine kinase levels (Colid, D. (2003). Rudolph's Pediatric, MacGraw-Hill Professional, p.630).
23783	The symptoms of vocal cord paralysis include hoarseness, inability to speak loudly, breathy quality of the voice, coughing and choking when swallowing of food or even saliva.
23784	Symptoms includes seizures and other manifestation of sever fasting hypoglycemia, hepatomegaly with the occurrence of abdominal protuberance, hyperventilation and apparent respiratory distress due to metabolic acidosis and vomiting resulting to metabolic acidosis and accompanied by hypoglycemia.
23785	Symptoms includes manifestation of angiomatosis or the appearance of the little knots of capillaries in the retina and organs of the body; hemangioblastomas or the tumor appearing in the central nervous system of the person especially the brain stem and the central nervous system; oheochromocytoma or the tumor of the adrenal medulla and the renal cell carcinoma or the malignant tumor of the kidney and the cysts and tumors in the pancreas which may be neuroendocrine tumors. Can be visualised by CT scan.
23786	Person with Von Recklinghausen Disease often shows and develop flat pigmented lesions of the skin called cafΘ au lait spots (Hyman, S.L. et al. (2003). Natural History of Neuropsychological Ability and T2-Hyperintensities in Patients with Neurofibromatosis Type 1. Neurology, 60(7), 1139-1145). However, there are also individuals who shows no symptoms at all while others may have rapidly progressive disorder. Disfigurement and cutaneous neurofibroma are often seen with people with this medical condition. The most common complication in patients having this condition is the disability in cognitive and learning.
23787	Von Willerbrand Disease is usually without symptoms or asymptomatic however, it may be manifest through the occurrence of manifestations which include varying degree of bleeding. Usually bruising, bleeding of the nose and unusual blood loss during childbirth, among others is often seen with person with this medical condition. In addition, women who have this kind of disease experience heavy menstrual flows during menstruation period.
23789	Common symptoms of vulvar cancer include: persistent itching of the genitalia; a burning sensation, pain, or tenderness in the vaginal area; bleeding unrelated to the menstrual cycle; visible changes in the color or texture of the skin; and the appearance of lumps and open sores or ulcers.
23790	Symptoms includes burning or itching of the vulvar skin, thickening of the vulvar, vaginal discharge and possible cracks in the vulvar skin.
23791	There is no distinguishing physical lesion present but redness of the vestibule was noted.
23792	Symptoms includes the following: irritation, itching or burning of the genital area, inflammation or the irritation or swelling of the labia majora, labia minora or the perineal area, vaginal discharge, foul vaginal odor, discomfort or burning when urinating and irritation or pain during sexual act.
23793	Symptoms includes complete hetechromia or the difference in the eye color, poliosis the premature graying of the hair, hypertelorism or presence of wide set eyes, moderate to profound hearing impairment, an unusually low hairline and eyebrows.
23794	The symptoms usually varies from one affected person to another but normally it includes different color of the eyes or the heterochromia, poliosis or the forelock white hair including the premature hair graying, hearing impairment and abnormal pigmentation of the skin. It some cases it may also involved neurologic manifestations.
23801	Since Wagner's Syndrome is often equated to the Stickler's Syndrome, the symptoms of the latter disease may manifest in the Wagner's Syndrome but lacks the incidence of retinal detachments. However, some people with this kind of disorder is asymptomatic.
23802	Symptoms includes flattened facial appearance, the presence of the Pierre Robin Syndrome which inludes the U-shaped or sometimes V-shape cleft palate and enlargement of the tongue that is too big for the space formed by the small lower jaw. It also includes near sightedness or even myopia causing the person to be more prone to glaucoma and retinal detachment. Hearing loss, arthritis and abnormalities in the bone and joints are also manifestation of the syndrome (Nowak CB (1998). "Genetics and hearing loss: a review of Stickler syndrome". J Commun Disord 31 (5): 437-53; 453-4).
23803	Symptoms includes the presence of the tumor of the kidney or the Wilms tumor, absence of the colored part of the eye or the Aniridia, genitourinary anomalies like tumors that appears in the gonads and mental disorders. It may also includes cataracts and ptosis.
23804	Symptoms includes unusual weakness, fatigue, sudden weight loss and chronic oozing of blood from the nose and gums (Kyle RA (1998). "Chapter 94: Multiple Myeloma and the Dysproteinemias", in Stein JH: Internal Medicine, 5th ed., New York: C.V.Mosby). Some symptoms are due to the IgM paraprotein which may cause autoimmune phenomenon or cryoglobulinemia. Other symptoms includes blurring or loss of vision, headache.
23805	Symptoms of the Wallerian Degeneration includes acute axonal degeneration or AAD which is the rapid separation of the proximal and distal ends which usually occur within the thirty minutes of the cause or the injury. The degeneration follows swelling of the axolemma. The axonal degeneration is usually followed by the decrease of the myelin sheath and the infiltration by the macrophages which may be accompanied by Schwann cells which serves to clear the debris from the degeneration (Waller A. "Experiments on the section of the glossopharyngeal and hypoglossal nerves of the frog, and observations of the alterations produced thereby in the structure of their primitive fibres." Philos. Trans. R. Soc. London 1850, 140:423-29).
23806	Person with Wallis Zief Goldblatt Syndrome usually presents rhizometic shortening most especially in the arms and protuberance over the lateral aspects of the clavicles. Bifid appearance of the clavicles resulting from the abnormal process or protuberance are also noted. Thus, person affected with this syndrome usually has short stature.
23807	It usually lacks visible symptoms however it may be associated to the unusual loss or weakening or even malformation of the ligaments due to the enlargement of the spleen or the change from the spleen's original position to another location usually in either other parts of the abdomen or into the pelvis. It may also be manifest through the presence of spleen-related disease such as hypersplenism, thrombocytopenia and lympoma (Hasan Alawi, Malak; Ahmad Khalifa, Sami Hassan Bana (October-December 2005). Wandering Spleen: A Challenging Diagnosis (PDF). Pakistan Journal of Medical Sciences. Open Publishing).
23808	It symptoms includes the retardation especially in psychomotor development, mental retardation, short stature, eye abnormalities and anomalies (Riccardi VM (1977). "Trisomy 8: an international study of 70 patients". Birth Defects Orig. Artic. Ser. 13 (3C): 171-84).
23809	Symptoms includes the presence of the small and rather tough tumor that resembles a cauliflower or a solid blister. There are range of different types of wart which varies in shape, size and place of the body affected and the type of human papillomavirus involved (Mosby's Medical, Nursing, & Allied Health Dictionary (5th edn), Anderson KN, Anderson LE, Glanze WD, eds, Mosby). Among these are the common wart or the verruca vulgaris which is a raised rough surface that is most common in hands and feet, flatwart virus or the verruca plana, the filiform or digitate wart the plantar wart, the mosaic wart which is a group of tightly clustered plantar-type warts and the genital warts or the venereal wart.
23810	Signs and symptoms of water on the knee would include pain, swelling, stiffness, and bruising.
23811	Water intoxication symptoms are nausea, muscle cramps, difficulty in concentrating, speech is slurred, confusion, hyponatremia, gastrointestinal dilation, bladder is dilated, hydronephrosis and edema.
23812	Symptoms includes onset fever,rigors, vomiting and headache followed by rash, first in the macular which may petechial and purpuric with dusky color. Cyanosis of extremities may also manifest. Thus it is manifest through the overwhelming bacterial infectio, rapidly progressive hypotension which leads to shock, disseminated intravascular coagulation or DIC which is accompanied by widespread purpura most especially in the skin and rapidely developing adrenocortical insufficiency linked to massive bilateral adrenal hemorrhage. Acidosis and acute renal failure can often be seen in cases of severe sepsis.
23813	The presence of long streaky red areas in the stomach similar to those features of a watermelon. It is also associated with portal hypertension, chronic renal failure and collagen vascular disease especially the scleroderma.
23815	Weber Sturge syndrome includes varying birthmarks in infants, convulsions weakness of one side of the body which the birthmark which is usually a large port-wine stain. Delay in growth and development is also seen as well as mental retardation and galucoma due to the increase pressure within the eye which also can cause enlargement of the eyeball and bupthalmos or the bulging of the eye out of its socket. Seizures in infants are also noted.
23816	Symptoms include the inflammation of the skin, recurrent crops of erythematous, and edematous subcutaneous nodules. The person with the disease may also show malaise, fever, nausea arthralgias, abdominal pain and hepatomegaly as sign of the disease.
23817	Its signs and symptoms includes initial signs like protean and presence of Rhinitis and includes the pain in the nose, nosebleeds due to a perforated septum, conductive hearing loss due to auditory tube dysfunction and scleris and conjuctivitis in the eyes. Coin lesions in the lungs and cavitary lesions includign pulmonary hemerrhage causing hemoptysis are also noted.
23818	The effect of the disease or the infection varies from one person to another, one person may not manifest any symptoms while others suffer from a flu-like sickness where the person suffers fever, shills and intense headache. Then later on it may be characterized by meningitis, liver damage and renal failure.
23819	The incubation period usually range from seven to thirteen days after exposure to the virus. Generally, the onset is very sudden with symptoms such as headache, chills and shivers that come with some vague muscular pains as well as sore throat and high temperature. Patients may also feel nauseous accompanied by sudden loss of appetite.
23819	The infection has an incubation period of 7 to 13 days, after which the first symptoms begin to appear. At the onset, the infection manifests with fever, aches and pains in the muscles, unexplained appetite loss, as well as vomiting with prostration. The fever usually lasts for approximately 5 days, and then followed by rapid deterioration of the body's functions. Later signs of Weil's disease include a distinct bruising of the skin, nose bleeds, sore eyes, and jaundice.
23820	Symptoms includes abnormalities in the face, skeletal malformation and nueral tube defects. It may also lead to deafness or the Stickler syndrom type III or those which affects the eye with sickness like myopia, retinal detachment and other skeletal abnormalities.
23821	Symptoms includes feeble movements of the arms and legs, difficulties in swallowing and impaired breathing. It also manifest through fasciculations of the tounge, marked hypotonia in proximal and distal muscles, weak cry and areflexive extremities.
23822	Symptoms varies depending on which of the potentially affected organ presents changes at the time of diagnosis . Skins lesions, premature aging, hyperpigmentation, hypopigmentation, tekingieoctasia, hyper keratosis and ulceration may also manifest especially in the skin (Laskaris,G. (2003). Color Atlas of Oral Diseases, p. 50). It may also include bird like facies, short stature and premature graying and balding.
23823	Symptoms includes mental confusion, ataxia, memory loss and confabulation.
23824	Patients with the disease develop long-lasting amnesia and confusion in their thoughts and memories. They can handle conversations normally, but they tend to forget the things that have happened in the past. Some patients meanwhile make up stories due to the absence of memories.
23825	Among the symptoms of the disease are headaches, flu-like symptoms, extreme weakness, skin rashes and inflamed lymph nodes. These conditions last for 1 to 3 weeks.
23826	At first the effect of the virus to human does not present any symptoms however, mild febrile syndrome termed as West Nile Fever will be manifest thereafter a neuroinvasive coined as West Nile meningitis or encephalitis may show (Olejnik E. "Infectious adenitis transmitted by Culex molestus." Bull. Res. Counc. Isr. 1952; 2: 210-21).
23827	Symptoms includes epileptic seizures, sudden and severe myoclonic convulsions of the entire body or the flexor mucle convulsions, convulsions on the legs in the throat and neck flexor muscles where the chin is fitfully jerked towards the breast or the head is drawn inward.
23828	Symptoms may vary from one person to another. A person affect by the infection may suffer mild illness accompanied with headache and sometimes fever. For people affected with severe cases of the infection a sudden high fever, headache, drowsiness, nausea and vomiting and weakness are observed.
23829	Symptoms includes muscle weakness, muscle stiffness and muscle cramps.
23831	Signs of wheat allergy may include swelling, irritation or extreme itching of the throat and mouth. It can also include hives as well as skin irritation, airway inflammation, gastrointestinal symptoms and nasal congestion. In severe cases, there is also the threat of anaphylaxis, where the patient experience difficulty in breathing and requires immediate medical attention. Constriction of the airways, rapid pulse and shock are among the symptoms of anaphylaxis.
23832	Symptoms includes eczema or atopic dermatitis, hives or the urticaria, ashtma, allergic rhinitis angioedema, abdominal cramps. For some symptoms may include anaphylactic shock, arthritis, bloated stomach, chest pains, depression or mood swings, diarrhea, dizziness, headache, joint muscle aches and pains, nausea, vomiting, psoriasis and even irritable bowel syndrome.
23833	Pain and stiffness of the neck Headaches Shoulder pain or among the shoulder blades Dizziness Ringing in the ears Vision is blurred Having a hard time concentrating Memory problems Irritability or bad temper Disturbances during sleep Anxiety
23833	Whiplash symptoms can manifest immediately after the car injury. It can aloes develop after several days or so. Symptoms include dizziness, headaches, pain in the shoulder, blurred vision, memory problems, irritability, fatigue, sleep disturbance and ringing in the ears.
23834	Its symptoms includes arthritis, malabsorption, accumulation of fatty deposits in lymph nodes of the intestine, lymphadenopathy, abdominal pain, diarrhea, fever and melanoderma. It may also show pedular vergence oscillations or the eyes and synchronous contractions of the masticatory muscles (Schwartz MA, Selhorst JB, Ochs AL, et al. Oculomasticatory myorhythmia: a unique movement disorder occurring in Whipple's disease. Ann Neurol 1986;20:677-683.[Medline]).
23835	Symptoms includes bloody diarrhea , blood loss, anemia and rectal prolapse.
23836	It usually manifest itself in the mouth which is usually thick bilateral white plaque with spongy texture which is usually a buccal mucosa. It also manifest on the labial mucosa, alveolar ridge or floor of the mouth which is benign.
23837	The signs of whiteheads arte the appearance of slightly enlarged pores with white fillings that usually appear on the nose, forehead and chin. This is quite common among teenagers but can affect people of all ages, especially those with oily skin.
23838	The symptoms of the disease include bronchitis, fever, and loss of appetite, chest pains, cough and some skin infections. In the advanced stages of Whitemore disease, complications in the liver, brain, heart and kidneys become evident.
23839	Symptoms includes swelling and pain of the fngertips, fever, tender and swollen lymph nodes, fingertips abscess and swollen armpit lymph nodes.
23840	Whooping cough share the symptoms of an ordinary cold, such as runny nose, sneezing, nasal congestion, red and watery eyes, mild fever, dry cough and general feeling of malaise and lack of appetite. In advanced stages, patients experience severe coughing, that can lead to vomiting as well as fatigue due to exertion during coughing.
23841	Symptoms includes initially by mild respiratory infections symptoms like cough, sneezing and catarrhal stage or runny nose. Thereafter the cough is followed by an inspiratory whooping sound which may be increase by vomiting. It may lead to malnutrition and dehydration and even pneumonia, encephalitis, pulmonary hypertension and secondary bacterial superinfection (Mattoo S, Cherry JD (2005). "Molecular pathogenesis, epidemiology, and clinical manifestations of respiratory infections due to Bordetella pertussis and other Bordetella subspecies". Clin Microbiol Rev 18 (2): 326-82).
23842	Its symptoms includes large bruising or injuries, frequent or hard to stop nosebleeds, long bleeding of the gums after a dental procedure, blood in the stool, heavy mentrual period in women and in giving birth, unusual and heavy bleeding after a cut or after surgical operation.
23843	Symptoms includes varying degrees of bleeding tendency which may be internal. Bruising, nose bleeds and heavy menstrual period and blood loss during childbirth are observed.
23844	Symptoms includes difficulty understanding the state of mind of conversational partners and fetal alcohol syndrome. Left eye dominance and left handedness are usually seen (Van Strien JW, Lagers-Van Haselen GC, Van Hagen JM, De Coo IF, Frens MA, Van Der Geest JN (2005). "Increased prevalences of left-handedness and left-eye sighting dominance in individuals with Williams-Beuren syndrome". J Clin Exp Neuropsychol 27 (8): 967-76).
23845	Symptoms includes the presence of the tumor of the kidney, absence of the colored part of the eye or the Aniridia, genitourinary anomalies like tumors that appears in the gonads and mental disorders. It may also includes cataracts and ptosis.
23846	Symptoms often includes a lump in the abdomen and blood in the urine. There is also a mutation on the 11th chromosome (Call K, Glaser T, Ito C, Buckler A, Pelletier J, Haber D, Rose E, Kral A, Yeger H, Lewis W (1990). "Isolation and characterization of a zinc finger polypeptide gene at the human chromosome 11 Wilms' tumor locus". Cell 60 (3): 509-20).
23847	Symptoms includes liver disease and neuropsychiatric symptoms (Ala A, Walker AP, Ashkan K, Dooley JS, Schilsky ML (2007). "Wilson's disease". Lancet 369 (9559): 397-408).
23848	Apart from the wig-like structure of the scapula, the person may also experience shoulder pain on the shoulder blades and limited strength to use the shoulders.
23849	The symptoms of the disease are vomiting and nausea, chills, fever, headache, extreme abdominal pain and diarrhea. When not treated, the disease can be fatal.
23850	Its symptoms includes bruising thrombocytopenia or low platelet counts, small platelet size on bloody film, eczema, recurrent infections and possibility for autoimmune disorders and malignancies.
23851	Symptoms includes severe to profound mental retardation, microcephaly, seizures, hypotonia and cleft lift and/or palate. Its also includes unusual facial features which includes strabismus, hypertelorism, down turned fish like mouth and small chin ear tags or pits and cranial asymmmetry.
23852	Usually person with Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome does not manifest any symptoms throughout their entire lives.
23853	Its symptoms includes the occurrence of Diabetes Insipidus, Diabetes Mellitus, Optic Atrophy, and Deafness.
23854	The symptoms of the Wolman disease includes progressive mental deterioration, enlargement of the liver and enlargement of the spleen, distended abdomen and steatorrhea or the excessive amounts of fats in the stool, anemia, vomiting and hardening of the adrenal glands due to excessive calcium deposits.
23855	Women with womb cancer usually suffer from vaginal bleeding, pain and discomfort during intercourse, as well as pain while urinating.
23856	It is characterized by the manifestation of alopecia, hypogonadism, loss of hearing, mental retardation and diabetes mellitus (Medica I, Sepcic J, Peterlin B (2007). "Woodhouse-Sakati syndrome: case report and symptoms review". Genet Couns. 18 (2): 227-231).
23857	Wooly Hair Syndrome usually manifest through the appearance of a wooly hair that is unusually frizzy and wiry like hair.
23858	A person infested by worms usually has pale skin, experiences headaches and loss of appetite, doesn't have enough energy to work and sometimes incur an abnormally large abdomen.
23859	The symptoms of worm infestation are headaches, paleness, loss of appetite, consistent hunger and presence of worms in the feces.
23860	The signs and symptoms of Worster-Drought syndrome include difficulties with the voluntary movement of the lip, tongue and palate and often times shows brisk jaw jerk. Abnormal tooth alignment and mild spasticity of the legs and the arm including its incoordination are also manifest.
23861	The symptoms of wrinkles are the development of fine lines and creases on the skin as you age. There are some wrinkles that become deep crevices or furrows that can become especially noticeable on the face.
23862	Its symptoms includes cramping and spasm of the hands and the fingers after writing activity.
23864	Symptoms includes occurrence of infections.
23867	Symptoms includes lack of enzyme which causes excessive dryness of the skin, or the skin appearing to be scaly and cracked.
23868	Symptoms includes intellectual disability, eongated face, protruding ears, macroorchidism or having larger testicles, cluttered speech and stereotypic movements.
23870	Palpebrarum in itself is a symptom for other disorders. These plaques are mostly found in one or both of the patient's upper eyelids which are near the nose area, one or both of the lower eyelids. Sizes of the lesions can be from 2-30 mm which have flat surface and well-defined borders. The lesions are not itchy nor are they tender.
23871	Symptoms includes unusually high concentrations of xanthine in the blood and urine which can lead to renal problems and a xanthine kidney stones (Hille R. (2006). "Structure and Function of Xanthine Oxidoreductase" European Journal of Inorganic Chemistry 2006 (10), 1905-2095).
23872	Symptoms includes unusually high concentrations of xanthine in the blood and urine which can lead to renal problems and a xanthine kidney stones (Hille R. (2006). "Structure and Function of Xanthine Oxidoreductase" European Journal of Inorganic Chemistry 2006 (10), 1905-2095).
23873	Symptoms includes occurrence of sore and bumps in the skin that is usually flat and yellow in color.
23874	The symptoms includes chronic diarrhea during infancy, cataracts or the clouding of the lens of the eye which may develop late in childhood, brittle bones that are prone to fracture and other neurological problems that may arise in adulthood like dementia, seizures, hallucinations, depressions and ataxia and dysarthria.
23875	Symptoms include having an unusual sunburn even after short time exposure to the sun which may last for weeks. It also manifest through freckles even at a young age, unusual dark spots, think skin, excessive drying of the skin, solar keratoses, eyes that are sensitive to the sun which may become clouded and irritated, blistering, spidery blood vessels and scaly skin.
23883	Symptoms includes extreme dryness of the conjuctival epithelium and poor lid closure and chronoc conjunctivitis.
23886	Usually men with the medical condition of YCM may exhibit no symptoms however when YCM is present the most common effect or sign is their reduced fertility (Krausz, Csilla; Lluis Quintana-Murci and Ken McElreavey (July 2000). Prognostic Value of Y Deletion Analysis. Human Reproduction 15 (7) 1431-1434)
23887	Its symptoms includes the presence of mother yaw ulcer which may show as nodules or keloid formations that can cause deformities and contracture of the limbs.
23888	Severe itching, burning and soreness, irritation of the vagina Whitish-gray discharge with a curd-like appearance Red patchy sores near the head of the penis or on the foreskin (for men)
23889	Jaundice symptoms appears in patients with this kind of disease, thus the term yellow.
23890	Syptoms includes the swelling of the blocked or damaged lymphatic system. Usually it is manifests through the yellowish color of the nails.
23891	Yersinia infections may manifest with the bubonic plague, which has a 2-6 day incubation period. Affected persons usually suffer from lethargy, fever, headaches, chills, and lymph node swelling. Yersinia infection may also cause septicemic plague, which includes the following symptoms: hepatosplenomegaly, hypotension, delirium, seizures, lethargy, shock, and fever. In addition, the Yersinia bacterium may cause pneumonic plague, which has the following symptoms: cough, chills, fever, dyspnea, chest pain, lethargy, hemoptysis, hypotension, shock, and occasionally some symptoms of the bubonic and septicemic plagues.
23892	The symptoms of Yersinia pestis depends on what form a person is affected. Thus, it is is by Bubonic plague, the symptoms includes occurrence of swelling lymph nodes, restlessness and lacks of energy, fever, headache and chill. Septicemic Plague upon the other hand manifest through the occurrence of hypotension, hepatosplenomegaly, delirium, shock and seizures while the Pneumonic Plague's sign are fever, chills, chest pain, dyspnea, hemoptysis, lethargy and hypotension.
23894	Yips are involuntary jerks and freezing of the hand and wrist. Many golfers experience yips in various ways and can add to frustrations. This is found to be most common on long golfing sessions.
23895	Symptoms includes the occurrence of a benign but malignant endodermal sinus tumor.
23897	Affected individuals have normal lung function but with an abnormally viscous mucus. The reduced fertility results from a functional obstruction of sperm transport down the genital tract at the epididymis where the sperms are found in viscous, lipid-rich fluid.
23898	Patients have retarded growth before and after birth, their skull bones have defective growth, complete or incomplete shoulder blades, and characteristic facial features. They may also have finger or toe abnormalities. Affected infants often have respiratory difficulties, heart defects, and sever feeding problems.
23899	Affected individuals experience dermal and ocular lesions, low immune responses, and irregular menstrual cycles. They may also experience unusual skin sores, fatigue, headache, and cough. Reports also show that affected children have poor cognitive development.
23900	Affected individuals experience sypmtoms such as dry skin, primary hypothyroidism, cleft palate, hypodontia, ectodermal dysplasia, microcephaly, or umbilical hernia
23902	Patients experience having aniridia, ectopia lentis, abnormal upper incisors, and mental retardation.
23903	Individuals with the syndrome usually have an enlarged liver, a blood stream with high levels of iron and copper, and vision disturbances. Failure in prenatal growth may show in some affected infants. Congenital symptoms may include an absence of muscle tone, an inability to move and glaucoma. Other affected individuals may have unusual facial features, mental retardation, seizures, and an inability to suck or swallow. Others may also have jaundice and gastrointestinal bleeding.
23904	Affected infants have gingival fibromatosis, nail dysplasia, joint hypermobility, and sometimes hepatosplenomegaly. They have abnormal facial features due to an unusually large and poorly developed nose and pinnae. They may also develop mental retardation.
23905	Symptoms includes behavioral disturbance, dandruff, delay in the healing of the wound, diarrhea, skin lesions including eczema, and acne, white spot in the fingernail, hair loss and growth retardation.
23906	The most common symptoms are diarrhea, pain in the abdomen, bleeding, weakness and fatigue and yellow fat found in the stool.
23907	The common symptoms are vision is blurred, difficulty in reading and driving, falls, accidents, opaque lens, leukocoria, strabismus, nystagmus and white pupil reflex.
23908	Common symptoms are deformity of the chest, pectus excavatum, deformity of the head, dysplastic nails, developmental delay and mental retardation.
23909	Symptoms that may be proposed comprise characteristic facies, hearing loss, and cleft palate. Related symptoms range from things such as heart defects, colobomas of the eyes, mental retardation, ichthyosiform dermatosis, and ear abnormalities.
23910	Symptoms include swelling or subareolar mass, a draining fistula from behind the areola, thick discharge from the nipple, or painful discharge
