30001	In the case of salt wasting, an intravenous saline or dextrose could be used to stabilize the patient's condition. Like most cases of CAH, it is necessary to have enough doses of glucocorticoid replacement for the suppression of androgen and mineralocorticoid. Hypertension can also be ameliorated using this method. It is necessary to have balanced dosages as oversuppression could also lead to growth retardation.
30002	To properly prescribe a specific treatment or therapy to patients that are deficient in 11 beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase type 2 genes, it is important that AME diagnosis be done accurately.
30006	Cortisol treatment can come in the form of tablets or suspension. Oral cortisol is often destroyed by gastric acids that is why it is necessary to have the treatment dose doubled as compared to the normal cortisol production. Cortisol disappears rapidly on the bloodstream so it is imperative to administer the a third of the daily dose thrice each day. Prednisolone is approximately 5 times more dynamic than cortisol that is why the daily dose should be 3-6 milligrams for every square meter of body surface area. This should be taken orally every 24 hours. Glucocorticoids are best given when surgery is being planned or when the patient is down with a high-grade fever. This treatment is also advisable when the patient incurred any injuries such as broken bones There are more available options to a patient with 21-hydroxylase deficiency. All he has to do is to consult his physician and they will be able to discuss the pros and cons of the different treatments.
30009	To be able to treat 3-Methylglutaconyl-CoA Hydratase Deficiency, protein intake should be greatly reduced (specifically Leucine). Carnitine supplements can be given and prolonging fasts should be strictly avoided. And since the diagnosis and treatments of 3-Methylglutaconyl-CoA Hydratase Deficiency can be very complex, pediatricians are highly advised to collaborate with pediatric specialist on the disorder. Parents of afflicted children should constantly carry with them the guidelines for treatment that have been prescribed by the patient's pediatrician.
30010	Although many believe that the administration of L-carnitine to LCHAD deficient patients could help, there is still much debate when it comes to its effects. There are studies that show that carnitine supplements might improve the clinical results in LCHAD deficient people. There are also studies which show otherwise and these studies argue that L-carnitine administration do not show evidence of improvements in patients. It is imperative for parents of patients to meet with dieticians and specialists that have a good know-how of this disorder. These specialists will be able to map a treatment that might work for the suffering patient.
30012	Disorders of the mitochondria can now be treated. Several methods have been invented to help cure the disorder. One such invention is the administration of triacetyluridine or other nucleosides that are pyrimidine-based.
30015	Most estrogen hormonal treatments are now being administered through the skin. The introduction of this hormone to the growing female would induce development of breasts and occurrence of menstrual period. And to further predict the exact time of the patient's menstrual period, it is best that she is given progestin which usually comes in the form of a pill. Since a patient suffering from 46 Gonadal dysgenesis epibulbar dermoid cannot produce her own eggs, she can only have babies if a fertilized egg is implanted in her uterus. In cases where even the uterus is absent, the most viable option is to adopt children or have someone become a surrogate parent.
30016	Testosterone treatment could not alter the genetic abnormality but it can help in treating some of the symptoms. It is also advisable that boys or men with this condition undergo psychosocial therapy where they would have a support group that would understand and not condemn them.
30017	This condition cannot be corrected but to prevent the occurrence of this syndrome on the patient's posterity, it is best that genetic testing must be done.
30018	Most of the girls might need a lifetime of medical management but some cases would foster normal growth after therapies. The most important therapies would be those that would help the patients to develop learning skills. Physical and occupational therapy are also advisable to those that have skeletal, psychomotor and muscle problems. These therapies could help in improving the patient's condition. Some cases would need estrogen treatment so that the patients would develop sexual characteristics such as enlargement of breasts. For those that are inflicted with the more severe symptoms, it is advisable to consult a specialist on their specific illness (e.g. for heart illnesses, a competent cardiologist should be consulted).
30022	There are now many ways of managing this disorder. In fact, there are abundant products in the market that were specifically invented to treat the illness. Many of these products could be accessed and bought online but, of course, it is always safer to consult a specialist before purchasing any type of medication. There are also numerous therapists and health professionals who are trained to handle patients who suffer from this specific case. These include speech therapists, psychiatrists, counselors, psychologists, physical and occupational therapists. These people deal with the symptoms that come with the syndrome. Most of these medical professionals can also be found online. Just one click of a mouse and the family of the patient will be able to locate specialists from their state. Another click and they will be able to view the contact details of these professionals.
30023	For the abnormalities on the patient's teeth, it is best to consult an orthodontist to correct any problems. If it's the height that has been affected, it has been observed that growth hormones are not effective means to improve the patient's height.
30024	For patients with complications on anemia, it is advisable that frequent transfusion of blood be done (especially on the primary year of life). Prednisone can be administered but this should be evaded during infancy as this medicine can badly affect the development of brain and also the child's growth. If all other treatment fails, then a bone marrow transplant is necessary.
30025	The treatments used to address the disease include frequent blood transfusions and bone marrow transplant to stabilize the production of platelets.
30026	Learning to fly or sky dive can help an aviophobic to overcome his fear for flying. Certain therapies are proven effective as well such as Cognitive Behavior Therapy and Systematic desensitization. Medications including psychoactive medicines such as relaxant and depressants for individuals experiencing anxiety can be prescribed though not always recommended.
30027	This condition can be treated through therapies. Physical therapy is a good treatment and the support of the patient's family members should be unwavering. A study made in Japan recently showed that pulsed radiofrequency can be used to treat not only pain in the muscles but also abasia itself. The study involved subjects that are 52 years of age and have recently undergone operation on their backs. The operation resulted into abasia but it was observed that PRF improved the condition of the subjects. Their leg pains have been abated and the Japanese scientists who made the study have concluded that PRF could be a good option to treat abasia. Abasia is classified as a conversion disorder and it can also be treated with the use of hypnosis, psychotherapies and anxiolytic agents.
30028	If the condition just started and there are no symptoms, the physician might advise cyclic evaluation. This could include an annual ultrasound so that the growth of the aneurysm could be observed. To prevent complications on aneurysms that show symptoms, it is best for the patient to undergo surgery. A 5.5 centimeter (or bigger) aneurysm badly needs a surgical procedure. This will hamper any more symptoms from developing. There are two kinds of surgical procedures for aneurysm: the traditional and endovascular stent grafting. The traditional way is to make a cut in the abdomen and the ruptured vessel is then replaced with synthetic material grafting. The second approach involves putting a stent graft in the artery with the use of a catheter. This does not require making a large cut on the abdomen.
30029	Eneucleation is a good treatment whenever possible. Abdominal cystic lymphangioma can also be treated through surgery. The surgical procedure aims to make a resection of the remote lymphangioma. There is good prognosis after the surgery. There are many ways of searching for a competent surgeon to do the procedure. It is best to scout around for the best and, if possible, more affordable professional that is available. An easy way to do this is to look for surgeons online and to review their credentials. Therapies can also be done to aid in stabilizing the condition of the patient.
30032	Treatment includes administration of IV fluids and undergoing treatment to alleviate the pain.
30035	Treatment for the disease includes proper diet, high amounts of vitamin E, and occupational therapy. Vitamin E helps a lot in restoring lost lipoproteins that are usually missing in people with abetalipoprotenimia.
30036	AMS patients could undergo several treatments such as speech, physical and occupational therapies. Some severe cases of AMS need daily therapies which help them cope with their circumstance. Those who suffer from hernia could also undergo surgical procedures to correct their condition.
30037	The condition can be treated with hormonal supplements, or adequate rest, depending on the underlying cause.
30038	Surgical intervention is often necessary for severe and dangerous infections. Debridement is the medical procedure which involves removal of dead skin tissues around and on the wound surface. Curettage is the scraping of dead skin cells and tissue to prevent contaminating the healthy cells and tissue close to the abscess. Administration of antibiotics and anti-inflammatory agents can reduce the pain and swelling of the wound.
30039	Initial treatment for Bartholin's abscess includes soaking the affected area in warm water at least four times a day for a period of several days. This method will provide some temporary relief by restricting the infection in one area and forcing the abscess to open up and drain on its own. However, the site of rupture is often too small and closes very quickly before complete fluid drainage occurs. A more effective alternative is to make a small surgical cut to completely drain Bartholin's abscess. In this procedure, local anesthesia is applied to the area, and then a small catheter is used to allow draining as the affected region heals. This approach provides the fastest symptom relief and recovery. Antibiotics may also be prescribed in treatment. However, antibiotics are no longer needed if the abscess has been properly drained. For women who repeatedly have Bartholin's abscess, marsupialization may be considered. Marsupialization is a surgical procedure in which a small, permanent opening is created to help drain the gland. In some cases, if the abscess persists, physicians may recommend surgical removal of Bartholin's glands. Of course, it is also important to treat the gonorrhea or other bacterial infection that caused the abscess in the first place.
30040	There are a number of available medications that can effectively reduce or even eliminate episodes of petit mal seizures. However, looking for the right medication as well as the exact dosage can be quite complex, and often requiring some trial and error and should only be administered under the supervision of a qualified medical practitioner.
30044	Doxycycline could be used to treat Acanthocheilonemiasis even if the patient does not show Lymphatic Filariasis. It has been proven that this drug greatly reduces the number of worms of Mansonella perstans that can be found in the patient's blood. 50% of the subjects that were first experimented on showed positive response. There are also alternative ways of treating the illness.
30049	Patients of acanthosis nigricans must be screened for cancer or diabetes. It is also important for them to control their levels of blood glucose and this can be done by having a proper diet and some good exercise. When a healthy regimen is strictly followed, recovery is almost always certain. Also, if the causes are immediately diagnosed and treated with the right medications, the prognosis is often positive. It is often best to seek medical advice once the hyper pigmentation appears suddenly. This could be an indication that the patient has other conditions that need to be attended to immediately.
30054	The most effective treatment for Achard Thiers syndrome is to treat the underlying cause which is diabetes mellitus. An effective treatment should normalize the blood glucose and decrease the complications through the use of insulin replacement, exercise and proper diet. The present forms of insulin replacement are the multiple-dose, split-mixed dose, mixed-dose and single-dose regimens. The use of human insulin that has been purified is now common. Type 2 diabetic patients may need antidiabetic drugs that are administered orally to stimulate the production of endogenous insulin, to restrain hepatic gluconeogenesis, and increase sensitivity of the insulin at cellular level. For those who suffer from obesity, it is imperative for them to get rid of some of their excess weight. There are five types of drugs for diabetes treatment: sulfonylureas, meglitinides, biguanides, alpha-glucosidase and thiazolidinediones. These drugs enhance insulin action and also tend to lower the blood pressure of hypertensive patients.
30056	Treatment is often carried out by oral intake of non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) such as aspirin and ibuprofen. Rest, applying ice and elevation should be undertaken initially to reduce symptoms. Limitation of activities that probably could aggravated the inflammation.In cases when the aboved-mentioned treatment options aren't effective, surgery is performed to remove the inflamed tissue from the tendon.
30057	Treatment is usually based on the gravity of the condition. In most severe cases, a surgical procedure may be required. This involves an incision at the back of the lower leg and stitching up the torn tendon. For non-invasive treatments include the use of walking boots and casts to help the tendons reattach and heal naturally.
30060	Currently, there are no treatments for achondroplasia. Some patients might try to use growth hormones to improve their height but this won't help. It can be effective with many other patients with problems in height but for patients of achondroplasia, it is proven to be ineffective. The much talked about limb-lengthening surgery could be tried by patients. It takes time to heal but it can help in extending the patient's height
30061	At present there is no treatment available for the Achondroplastic Dwarfism.
30067	There are three ways to treat isovaleric acidemia: the first is a specialized diet that is low in protein (which is a medical formula that can be prepared by a physician for the patient); the second is an oral administration of glycine and carnitine; and the last is immediate medical assistance as soon as the symptoms occur. The special preparation of diet should include only 2 grams of protein or about a half cup of any of the following foods: cold or hot cereals, breads, bagels, croutons, pasta noodles, pita bread, tortillos, yams and sweet potatoes, to name just a few.
30068	Regimens of treatment for this disorder are complicated. The diet is protein-restricted and the administration of a formula that has been specially prepared is needed. L-carnitine may be of help to replenish the extracellular and intracellular storage of free carnitine. Oral administration of antibiotics could prove to be useful in decreasing propionate gut production, or the usage of a laxative in increasing motility of the gut. Continuous feedings throughout the night may help in the decrease of beta-oxidation and also the release of fatty acids that are odd-chained (theoretically, this is believed to inhibit lipolysis). Transplant of the liver helps protect against severe metabolic decompensation.
30070	Initial treatment is necessary to provide short-term relief of the affected area and reduce swelling. Among the first aid treatments include elevating the affected knee, use of ice, pain relievers, a splint to stabilize the injured area or an elastic bandage around the knee. A surgical procedure is most likely required but a injured tendon cannot be sewn back together, which means the injured tendon needs to be reconstructed. This is done by taking a piece of tendon from another part of the leg and using it to connect the shinbone and the thighbone. Rehabilitation is usually required following a surgical treatment.
30072	Treatment includes the use of Isotretinoin.
30073	The primary treatment of Acne keloidalis nuchae includes the suppression of the inflammation through the use of antibiotics as well as steroid gels or even intralesional steroid injections. For the larger bumos, a surgical removal may be advised. These lesions have been known to heal best if left open, and healing process can take up several weeks to a couple of months. Hair removal through lasers is the bets known preventative treatment for Acne keloidalis nuchae.
30075	A period of observation may be good for neuromas that are slow-growing (with MRI monitoring). Some cases require surgery where the neuromas are removed through several approaches. Microsurgery is the only approach that removes the neuroma. The parts that are removed during surgery are the inferior and superior vestibular nerves as well as the tumor. The risk that goes with surgical procedure is a defect of the facial nerve. The chances of damages to this nerve become smaller when the acoustic neuromas are also small. The bigger the tumor, the bigger are the chances of the occurrence of facial nerve defects.
30075	Treatment for Acoustic Neuroma includes surgical removal of the tumor and radiation therapy.
30076	The severity of the condition is often dependent on underlying conditions that are present. As the systemic form is treated, the condition often improves. The part of the skin that is affected by acquired ichthyosis undergoes hydration together with lotions that contain alpha-hydroxy acid ammonium lactate). The use of retinoid creams (tretinoin) can also be administered.
30077	Antiretroviral treatments reduce the morbidity and the mortality of the HIV virus. The sad thing is, not all countries have access to antiretroviral medications.
30078	At present, the first choice of medical treatment for all signs of syphilis is still the penicillin (which comes in the penicillin G. type). The penicillin effect on syphilis was already known widely even before the use of random clinical tests. This resulted into case series of penicillin treatments, expert opinions, and clinical experience throughout the years. Parenteral penicillin G is the sole therapy which has records or documents of effect when the patient is pregnant. In the case of early syphilis, a single dose of penicillin would be enough. Those who are not pregnant have acute allergic reactions to the medicine such as anaphylaxis. But these allergic reactions could easily be treated with doxycycline or tetracycline (there is limited data that support this claim, though). An alternative treatment is Ceftriaxone but the optimal dose remains undefined. It is concluded that all pregnant patients who are afflicted with any type of syphilis be desensitized then treated with penicillin. Those with ear problems can be treated with prednisone or penicillin for over a period of three months which results into a good function of the ear's cochlea.
30079	Treatments and therapies could be applied to alleviate the symptoms. Specialists could be consulted to help on the mental development of the patient. Cardiologists could also help on the cardiac symptoms of the illness.
30080	Treatment is not needed for acrochordons. If they become sore from rubbing jewelry or clothing or if you find them unsightly, they can be surgically removed. It usually takes a week or two for it to heal completely. Even if all existing tags are removed, new skin tags may form, and some people take chromium poclinate 200mcg twice a day for such skin tags to disappear. This drug can be found in a specialty supplement shop.
30081	The most sensible protection against further experience of acrocyanosis is having the people protect the exposed parts against the cold weather. The bluish condition often occurs for a few minutes up to a few hours that is why it is important for the feet and hands to be kept warm. The parts that have been exposed to the cold could also be made warm again. Thick clothing is a must for patients who suffer from this illness (especially those who live in cold areas).
30082	If the disease remains untreated, it could be deadly and patients could die in just a few years. The illness still has no cure. Treatment often includes a dietary zinc supplement which can be taken throughout the entire life of the patient. The zinc supplementation range should be greater than 1-2 milligram per kilogram of bodyweight daily.
30083	The treatment depends greatly on the physical or cognitive defects that are present. Orthopedic treatment and early intervention that are accompanied with special education is highly recommended by most physicians. Genetic counseling could be done to aid with the diagnosis, assessment of the risks, and also testing. It is highly advised that the health care provider be contacted immediately when the parents notice retardation on their child's growth or development. Any other forms of infant abnormalities should also be given immediate medical attention.
30085	There is no specific treatment yet for the disease. Medications such as azathioprine and prednisolone have been found effective in reducing the symptoms E10of the illness.
30086	The treatment is totally dependent on what symptoms manifest. If the patient suffers from speech retardation, then it is a speech therapist that could help the patient. Physicians who specialize in ear problems can also help. They may not totally cure the condition but they can help in managing the symptoms.
30087	The objective of treatments is to reduce the production of GH down to the normal levels. This will relieve the tumor pressure on the brain which will preserve the normal function of the pituitary gland. It is also the aim of the treatment to reverse or lessen the symptoms of the disorder. The three most common treatments are surgery (which is the fastest and most effective treatment that is available); radiation therapy (this is a type of treatment that should go together with surgery and drugs), and also drug therapy (the two known medications include Bromocriptine or Parlodel and Sandostatin.
30090	Studies are still being done to address the phobia and there is a handful of promising leads that could help treat this disorder. Virtual reality is being studied to be used in treating those who suffer from this specific phobia.
30091	The treatment that is available for this disorder varies greatly as it depends on the sex and age of the patients that are afflicted with this deficiency. Also, physicians consider several other factors before undertaking any particular treatment. Factors such as the severity of the problem and also the exact number of hormones that are involved have to be considered. Other underlying causes have to be considered as well. Hormone replacement should be administered immediately to restore hormonal balance. Also, the patient should be educated regarding his condition. He should know any complications that can arise because of ACH deficiency and what he could do to improve his condition. He should also be educated of the things that he must avoid to further aggravate his condition. Hydrocortisone and cortisone may be administered in divided doses to replace the deficient hormones. Most of the patients of this illness do not require more than 20 milligrams of hydrocortisone daily. When this illness is coupled with other hormonal deficiencies, it could be possible that a life-time maintenance of hormonal therapy would be prescribed by the physician.
30092	Without evidence of malignancy in severe cases, a lip shave procedure (vermilionectory may be performed for the treatment of this skin disorder). A physician may also recommend destruction (ablation) of the damaged cells with carbon dioxide laser in less extreme cases.
30093	There are several methods of treating actinic keratosis. Some of these are: crysurgery is done by freezing off the actinic keratoses with liquid nitrogen; application of 5-fluororacil cream (this is a chemotherapy agent) where the AK's become red and swollen before they fall off; photodynamic therapy is a new therapy which involves an injection of chemical into the patient's bloodstream wherein the AK's become more sensitive to light forms; laser and erbium eraser; electrocautery involves the use of electricity to burn off AK's; immunotherapy enhances immunity; and various forms of surgical procedures.
30098	Patients are strongly advised to seek professional medical attention to properly administer or manage treatment plans. Antibiotics are the primary medications for this condition along with a combination of the following treatment approaches anti-inflammatory drugs, corticosteroids, aspirin, salicylate medications, preventative antibiotics and bed rest.
30099	The disease can be treated by adequate rest as well as intake of corticosteroids to prevent the onset of inflammation.
30100	Treatment includes administration of antibiotics, anti histamines and cough syrup including cessation of the cause like smoking cigarettes and tobaccos.
30102	The treatment for this type of leukemia would largely depend of the cancer cell features presented as well as the extent or severity of the disease, the patient's age, symptoms along with general health condition. Treatment strategies are based on chemotherapies, cell and bone marrow transplantations. Chemotherapies are often administered with the combination of two or more medications.
30103	In cases where Sweet's syndrome is not associated with malignancy, the skin disorder may disappear on its own without treatment. However, with the right treatment, skin lesions and other associated symptoms can dramatically disappear in 2-3 days. Doctors normally prescribe some systemic corticosteroids, oral anti-inflammatory medications that effectively lessen itching, redness, allergic reactions and swelling. Your doctor may also include intake of non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs such as ibuprofen, aspirin, naproxen sodium to relieve and reduce symptoms such as headache and fever.
30104	The good news for patients with gout is that it can be treated most of the time. Among the common medications prescribed for gout patients include NSAIDs or nonsteroidal anti-flammatory drugs that control the pain and inflammation, colchicines to effectively control gout, and steroid medications, which can either be administered through injections or in pill form.
30106	Attacks of acute intermittent porphyria can be best deflected through the diligent maintenance of the patient's nutrition as well as the avoidance of medications that may trigger the disorder. Heme is also administered to prevent any attacks.
30107	Treatment is primarily focused in treating the injury or damage to the kidneys and stabilizing the patient's condition. This may include limiting fluid intake to prevent accumulation. Dialysis is often required to remove the toxins in the body and the wastes while allowing the kidney time to heal.
30108	Initial treatment includes giving an antidote to reverse poisoning, screening for possible infections, and prevention of sever bleeding. This condition may require a liver transplant, which is a rather complex and lengthy surgical procedure with risks of infection, bleeding and death.
30109	The earlier detection of acute lymphocytic leukemia significantly increases the efficacy of the treatment, which basically aims to stimulate lasting remission. Treatment involves chemotheraphy, radiation therapy, use of steroids and a combination of intensive treatments that includes stem cell or bone marrow transplants.
30110	Like other forms of blood cancer, AML treatment would largely consist of chemotherapy, which is divided into two phases: the induction and postremission therapy. Induction is administered to induce complete and lasting remission by reducing the leukemic cells to untraceable levels. Consolidation aims to eliminate any existing or residual diseases.
30111	Treatments to alleviate altitude sickness include acetazolamide, known to help speed up acclimatization. Oxygen enrichment can also be used to effectively counteract the ill effects of attitude sickness. Patients who are prone to altitude sickness are advised to bring along a Gamow bag, which is a portable pressure bag that can be inflated using a foot pump.
30112	AML is categorized as a fatal disease but is alos known to be potential curable. However, only a small number of patients are pronounced to be completely cured by the existing therapy which include the administration of chemotherapy and stem cell transplants.
30113	Treatment of ANUG primarily aims to reduce the bacteria in the mouth which can be easily achieved through improved oral hygiene and use of salt water and mouthwash. Regular visits to the dentist will also effectively aid healing and preventing the infection to recur.
30114	To alleviate pain, meperidine is administered. Patients are also asked to stop feeding and would greatly rely on intravenous fluids for sustenance. By preventing food to pass through the system allows the pancreas to rest. Antibiotics are also prescribed to combat infection.
30115	Treatment includes administration of Intravenous fluids and antibiotics
30116	APMPPE is sually treated with immunosupressants and steroid therapy. However, treatments are known to be somewhat controversial but the consensus is that no treatment is currently available to alter the course of ocular lesions. In cases that are complicated by subretinal neovascularization, a surgical procedure known as laser photocoagulation mat prove useful.
30117	Among many types pf leukemia, APL is quite unique and is known to display sensitivity to ATRA or all-trans retinoic acid, which is a derivative of vitamin A. That is try treatments with ATRA is combined with anthracycline chemotherapy that usually results to remission in about 90% of the APL patients.
30118	Acute renal failure can be reversible if treatment is administered appropriately and promptly. iResuscitation or revival of normotension as well as cardiac output is the key in the treatment of acute renal failure. The primary interventions include monitoring fluid output and intake as closely as possible through the insertion of the urinary catheter. For people with severe renal failures, lifelong doalysis or kidney transplant are often required.
30119	Acute respiratory distress syndrome is typically treated with mechanical ventilation in the Intensive Care Unit. Ventilation is usually delivered through oro-tracheal intubation, or tracheostomy whenever prolonged ventilation (less than or equal to 2 weeks) is deemed inevitable. Appropriate antibiotic therapy should be administered as soon as microbiological culture results are available. Empirical therapy may be adequate if local microbiological surveillance is efficient. More than 60% ARDS patients experience a pulmonary infection either before or after the onset of lung injury.
30120	In most cases, the sinusitis will eventually subside without any need for antibiotics. However common treatment methods include, treating the allergy, use of decongestants, saline solution spray and antibiotics.
30121	Multi-drug treatments can be used to treat the disease.
30122	Management depends on aggressive treatment of the factors that precipitated ATN. One exception is the treatment of ATN related with the breakdown of muscle fibers caused by a crush injury. Aggressive, forced diuresis (that is, an increased excretion of urine) may improve the condition. Patients at high risk for developing ARF from contrast induced ATN should be treated with intravenous (IV) fluids before contrast exposure to prevent the ATN. There has been a recent report suggesting that pretreatment of these patients with a medication called mucomyst may also aid in preventing ARF in patients undergoing IV contrast exposure.
30125	Treatment of VLCADD typically consists of avoidance of fasting (by frequent meals) and use of IV glucose required when food cannot be tolerated (such as with a virus, cold, flu, or other common illness). Intake of long-chain fatty acids is best avoided. Supplemental carnitine is recommended for some affected children with VLCADD.
30126	Treatment of SCADD typically consists of avoidance of fasting (by frequent meals) and use of glucose IV required when food cannot be tolerated (such as with a virus, cold, flu, etc.). Intake of short-chain fatty acids is best avoided. Supplemental carnitine is recommended for some children affected with SCADD. Fundamental to the medical management of SCAD deficiency is to avoid fasting, especially during periods of high metabolic stress, such as illness. Overnight fasts should be managed with nighttime or late evening feedings where necessary. The addition of food-grade uncooked cornstarch mixed in liquid for a bedtime feeding has aided in decreasing the frequency of morning hypoglycemic episodes in several patients. High carbohydrate intake should be encouraged during illness, with initiation of intravenous glucose supplementation if the child has failed to keep down fluids, or unable to take adequate oral feedings.
30127	Treatment often focus on alleviating symptoms inasmuch as there is no treatment particularly design to cure the virus itself.
30128	While addiction or dependency is associated to seemingly uncontrollable urges, and arguably could have roots in genetic predispositions, treatment of dependency is conducted by a wide range of medical and allied professionals, including Addiction Medicine specialists, psychiatrists, and appropriately trained nurses, social workers, and counselors. Early treatment of acute withdrawal often comprises of medical detoxification, which can include doses of anxiolytics or narcotics to reduce symptoms of withdrawal. An experimental drug, ibogaine, is also suggested to treat withdrawal and craving. Other options to medical detoxification include acupuncture detoxification. In chronic opiate addiction, a surrogate drug such as methadone may be sometimes offered as a form of opiate replacement therapy. But treatment approaches universal focus on the individual's ultimate choice to pursue a different course of action. Therapists often categorize patients with chemical dependencies as either interested or not interested in changing. Treatments typically involve planning for specific ways to avoid the addictive stimulus, and therapeutic interventions intended to help a client learn healthier ways to find satisfaction. Clinical leaders in recent years have tried to tailor intervention approaches to specific influences that affect addictive behavior, using therapeutic interviews in an effort to discover factors that led a person to embrace unhealthy, addictive sources of pleasure or relief from pain.
30129	Treatment includes blood transfusions and administration of medicines designed to alleviate symptoms including occurrence of anemia.
30130	Treatment for Addison's disease involves replacing the missing cortisol (usually in the form of hydrocortisone tablets) in a dosing regimen that imitates the physiological concentrations of cortisol. Treatment must typically be continued for life. In addition, many patients need fludrocortisone as replacement for the missing aldosterone. Caution must be exercised when the person with Addison's disease becomes sick, has surgery or becomes pregnant. Medication may be require to be increased during times of stress, infection, or injury.
30131	Should surgery prove to be necessary, it is typically performed between the 4th and the 7th month after birth. The cranial bone is reshaped to allow uninhibited further growth of the head and a normal development of the brain and sensory organs.
30132	Treatment generally include supportive pain and hydration medications. In severe cases, surgical procedure may be administered following a close monitoring and study of the patient's condition eliminate the possibility of appendicitis.
30133	Chemotherapy and radiation may result to a cure in a small number of patients. These therapies result in decreasing the size of the tumor and are known to prolong life for extended periods in most patients.
30134	Standard therapy includes surgical resection whenever possible, as it is the mainstay therapy. Based on clinical experience, many centers advocate postoperative radiotherapy to aid in limiting local failure. A few specialized centers provide neutron beam therapy which may be more effective than conventional radiation therapy. There appears to be no effective chemotherapy for metastatic and/or unresectable ACC, although some patients may get palliation. Investigational Therapy: Several clinical trials are thoroughly examining the effects of relatively new chemotherapeutic drugs (paclitaxel, gemcitabine, etc.) alone, or in combination with other drugs, in the control of metastatic or locally recurrent ACC.
30135	Surgical removal is often the recommended treatement for major types of adenomas. There are also some conditions that can be cured with proper medication.
30136	Treatment for functioning adrenal adenoma involves the removal of the affected gland through surgery. There are some medical facilities that uses laparoscopic adrenalectomy, although this type of surgical approach is still not well-establised to be better than the standard surgery.
30137	The treatment of this medical condition would largely depend on the underlying causes of primary and secondary adenomyosis. Most of the time, pain medications are the primary treatment prescribed. In severe cases, hysterectomy may be an option as well as the intake of oral contraceptives to manage adenomyosis
30138	The treatment for ADA deficiency includes bone marrow transplant from a biological match in order to provide some healthy immune cells. Blood transfusions and gene therapies are also some of the known treatments as well as stem cell therapy, although the latter is still in the experimental stage.
30139	Treatments for AMD involve exercise modulation for patients as well as to closely monitor physical activities. Symptomatic relief can also be achieved by administering correct dosage of ribose which is taken orally, dosage depends of the body weight of the patient.
30142	Several patients, those that present early epilepsy usually die in infancy. Other patients, predominantly those with higher S-Ado/SAICA-riboside ratios tend to fare relatively well and usually reach adult age. The aim of the treatment is to replenish the decreased concentrations of adenine nucleotides in ADSL-deficient tissues. Some of these patients are treated with oral adenine for several months. More recently, there have been reports that the oral administration of D-ribose has effectively reduced frequency of seizure attacks as well as improve behavior.
30143	Treatment of adhesion varies on the location. it can be treated non surgically but unless stat surgery is necessary. There are two types of surgery procedure can be done in adhesion. First, is Laparoscopy, a camera is inserted into the body through a small hole to rule out the diagnosis of adhesion, then cut the fibrous tissue that connects the organs. Second is laparotomy, the physician make bigger incision in the skin and directly see to rule out the disorder and cut them.
30144	While in most cases, the shoulder will gradually heal on its own, the condition can last for several months, hampering normal activities as well as the discomfort brought about by the pain. Physical therapy is often recommended along with pain medications such as nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, heal and cold compress, consticisteroids, surgery and shoulder manipulations.
30145	The most common treatment of Adie syndrome include a prescription of reading glasses to effectively correct the patient's impairment. Also, pilocarpine drops can be administered as a diagnostic measure, usually applied three times a day. In cases where the condition is not treatable by drug therapy, thoracic sympathectomy is known to be the definitive treatment.
30146	Treatment for this medical disorder includes massage, pain medications, acupuncture, warm baths, and general avoidance of physiological and physical stress.
30147	Treatment for adrenal cancer includes surgical procedures such as laparoscopic adrenalectomy. In cases where cancer has grown large to perform laparoscopic surgery, other conventional surgical procedures can be done.
30148	For infants born with ambiguous genitalia are required to be closely observed for any symptoms of salt wasting while a diagnosis is being established. For patients suffering from dehydration and hyponatremia should receive intravenous fluid containing isotonic sodium chloride
30152	A complete tumor surgical excision is the only treatment that can cure ACC. This can be performed even when the ACC has invaded blood vessels such as the renal vein and the inferior vena cava. 50-60% is the survival rate after the surgical procedure. Regimens of chemotherapy and hormonal therapy are also used to reduce the manifestation of symptoms.
30154	Currently, there is no known cure for the illness although there are dietary treatments made available. An example is Lorenzo's Oil which can be combined with a VLCFA-low diet (this showed only limited success). The transplantation of bone marrow has also been proven to help ALD patients. These patients are the ones who are either afflicted with just mild symptoms or are just on the early stages of ALD. Lovastatin is a drug which seems to help but the means of action remains unclear.
30157	Treatment will take into consideration the age, overall health, as well as the medical history of the patient. Assessment will also include the extent of the condition, the type of schizophrenia, and the tolerance to medications. Since this condition is categorized as one of the major psychotic behavior, medications involve stabilizing agents and therapy.
30159	Treatment includes resectioning of the defective intestinal portion.
30160	Treatment requires developmental therapies as there is standard method of cure yet for the disease. Special education is given to address the developmental needs of the patient.
30165	There is no specific treatment of agnosia, but rehabilitation like occupational therapy and speech therapy can help and improve the patient, but depending on the cause of the disorder.
30166	Psychotherapy Cognitive-behavioral therapy (CBT) - it is type of psychological therapy. Behavioral therapy Breathing exercises Interoceptive exposure Real-life exposure Medications - this must be prescribed by a licensed physician Association with panic attacks: Sudden attack may happen to patients who have Agoraphobia when going to places where they fear they are out of place, they will be having a hard time to look for help and they may be humiliated. Epinephrine is secreted in large amounts during a panic attack that triggers the body's natural fight-or-flight reaction. A maximum intensity of 10 to 15 minutes builds up, which is the abrupt onset of a panic attack and usually lasts longer than 30 minutes. Several patients state a fear of dying or emotional loss of control and/or behavior.
30167	The treatment for Agyria is symptomatic and is based upon the severity and locations of the brain abnormalities. Patient must be provided with supportive care which will help in to comfort the patient and aids in nursing needs. Medications may control fits and shunting may be needed for hydrocephalus. Gastrostomy may be needed when the patient has difficulty in eating. The degree of brain abnormality is the basis for the prognosis of children which can vary. Beyond a 3- to 5- month-old level, several persons present no major development. Others may have normal growth or intelligence. Before the age of 2 several patients will die though because of modern medications and care patients can live until they are teenagers. The most usual reason of death is respiratory complications.
30174	Treatment of airplane ear primarily focuses on providing relief to the symptoms. If self-care attempts still does not relieve any of the discomfort, or the condition worsens over time, you may need to see a doctor. Nasal sprays, oral decongestants as well as oral antihistamines are among the primary medications for airplane ears.
30175	To treat akathisia, the doctor will discontinue or reduce the dosage of the medication that cause the disorder. The patient also advise to take anti cholinergic medication like benztropine (cogentin) or dophenhydramine. Beenzodiazepine clonazepam is also effective in treating this disorder. Another treatment is beta-blocker such as propanolol or metoprolol. Anti histamine drugs also given but with shorter effect than the beta blocker. Additional treatment and prevention is taking vitamin B6, vitamins good for the neurons.
30177	There is no specific treatment yet for the disease. Medications are used to reduce the symptoms of the disease.
30180	This medical disorder couldnot be cured although there are some small solution that could help improve the patient's quality of life. One of the most important consideration is the improvement of vision, provide protection from bright lights and prevention of skin damage.
30182	The treatment for Albright hereditary osteodystrophy include administering Vitamin D and calcium in order to effectively maintain high calcium levels in the body without the assistance of PTH.
30183	1) Bone treatments a) Surgical bone grafting b) Surgical bone pinning c) Surgical bone casting 2) Ovary surgery a) Surgical ovary cyst removal b) Ovary removal 3) Estrogen inhibitors a) Testolactone - artificial androgen with antineoplastic movement. Prevents the development of estrogen from adrenal androstenedione and reducing endogenous estrogen levels because it inhibits steroid aromatase. b) Fadrozole 4) Thyroid-inhibiting medications a) Propylthiouracil b) Methimazole 5) Pituitary-related treatments a) Pituitary surgery b) Somatostatin medications 6) Treatments for phosphorus problems a) Oral phosphates b) Vitamin D
30184	To date, there is no existing treatment of alcaptonuria, although ascorbic acid is usually prescribed to prevent pigment deposits. The degenerative joint symptoms are treated as osteoarthritis.
30185	The primar`y treatment for this medical condition is total abstinence from alcohol. Supportive programs for mothers include detoxification and rehabilitation as well as aftercare programs to ensure long-term results. Establishing a good support group for alcoholic women is important. Acute intoxification can also be treated by preventing aspiration of vomitus, administering IV, correction acidosis and hypothermia..
30186	The most effective way to combat alcohol hepatitis is through complete alcohol abstinence. Patients are also advised to undergo nutritional therapy, significant lifestyle change, undergo drug therapies, use of antioxidants and liver transplants for severe cases.
30187	Treatment is done by increasing thiamine levels via certain drugs. Thiamine helps improve the brain system and in a way repairs the damages brought about by alcohol abuse.
30188	Alcohol poisoning treatment usually involves supportive care while your body rids itself of the alcohol. It consists: Careful monitoring, Airway protection to prevent breathing or choking problems, Administration of fluids through a vein (intravenously) to prevent dehydration.
30189	Most treatments focus on helping people discontinue their alcohol intake, followed up with life training and/or social support in order to help them resist alcohol consumption temptations. Detoxification approaches and techniques are implemented with combination of supplementary approaches including supportive therapy, self-help groups, and ongoing establishment of coping strategies.
30190	Treatment approaches for the primary aldosteronism would greatly depend on the underlying cause. This may include a combination of certain medications and lifestyle changes that include healthier diet and regular exercise to help regulate the blood pressure.
30191	There is no known cure for Alexander disease, and there is also no standard course of treatment. Therapies for this mental condition are supportive and symptomatic.
30192	To date, there is no known cure for alien hand syndrome. However, symptoms can be significantly managed and reduced by keeping the hand occupied in a certain task such as holding a particular object. Some specific learned tasks can also help restore control of the hand to some extent. Patients are usually advised to carry a hand to facilitate in maintaining balance as well as keeping the hand occupied.
30193	To treat alkalosis is depend on the causative factor. If the cause is decrease carbon dioxide in the body paper, bag breathing is a main intervention to increase the carbon dioxide level in the body. Some alkalotic patients are given medication to correct chemical loss.
30194	To date, there is still no known effective treatment for this medical conditional and would correct the underlying enzyme deficiency of this disease. Patients are usually advised to regularly take ascorbic acid or vitamin C, which has been proven the help in preventing the deposit of pigments in the organ. and joint replacement.
30195	Treatment for this medical condition is specifically tailored for each patient, and are usually supportive therapies for the metabolic disorders, myopathies, and genetic diseases, Orthopedic surgical interventions, bracing and physical therapy have been known to prolong the life expectancy of the patient.
30196	To date, there are no known cure for this medical condition, although there are medication available to help patients achieve remission as well as prevent further health complications. Cortisteriods, are usually prescribed that is usually administered in high doses.
30197	Treatment includes environment control, avoidance of the causes such as dust mites and allergens medication.
30198	Since these types of fungus are available in practically everywhere, it makes it difficult to avoid. Antiasthma medications are usually prescribed such as cortisteroids as well as allergy shots that are initially given in high doses and gradually lower after some time.
30199	Treatments includes administration of antibiotics.
30200	The goal of treatment is to reduce the allergy symptoms. Avoiding exposure to allergen is thought to be the best treatment. Medicines to promote treatment include the administration of antihistamines to relieve mild to moderate symptoms, though sometimes cause drowsiness. Loratadine (Claritin) is non-drowsy and can be used without any negative effects in the learning ability of children. Longer-acting antihistamines are prescribed by doctors for its efficacy including fexofenadine and cetirizine.
30201	Treatments for alopecia vary depending on the underlying cause of the condition. If it is found to be due to medication, drugs can be prescribed to correct the hormonal imbalance. Phototherapy is also seen as a potential treatment as well as maintaining a balanced nutrition.
30202	About 50% patients with alopecia areata, usually are able to regrow their hair without any aid of medication. In severe cases, steroid injections and floucinonide or clobetasol creams are prescribed. Oral cortisteriods can also be administered to decrease hair loss as well as topical medications. Hair implants can also be an option for people who with sever cases of alopecia.
30203	Treatments for Alopecia totalis include Corticosteroids and Methotrexate.
30204	There is no standard treatment for alopecia universalis. However, various treatments have been explored, including corticosteroids, Minoxodil, Anthralin, Sulfasalazine, Topical Sensitisers, Oral Cyclosporine and Photochemotherapy.
30205	From mild to moderate, the hair loss of female pattern baldness is permanent and no treat is required if the individual is comfortable with her appearance. Minoxidil, used on the scalp is the only drug medication approved by the United States Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to treat female pattern balness, as it may help hair gronw in 20% to 25% of the female population. The FDA banned the use of hair transplants that are made of artificial fibers because of the high rate of infection.
30206	Minoxidil (a topical medication) and Finasteride (an oral medication) are the only clinically proven pharmacologic methods to prevent hair loss, however, accelerated hair loss may occur if there's discontinued use of the products. Hair transplantation therapies and scalp reduction, which are effective surgical procedures, should only be performed by qualified dermatologic surgeons or plastic surgeons but they can become expensive.
30207	Currently, there is no available cure for Alpers' disease and no treatments to slow down its progression. Anticonvulsants are used for seizures. Physical therapy can be implemented to maintain muscle tone and relieve limb stiffness. Unfortunately, diagnosis for patients with Alpers' disease is poor. Majority of the patients die within the first 10 years of their lives. The most common cause of death is liver failure, next is cardiorespiratory failure.
30208	Lung-affected Alpha-1 patients in the U.S. and Canada receive intravenous A1AT infusions from donated human plasma. Augmentation therapy may slow down the disease and prevent future damages to the lungs. However, this kind of therapy is only recommended to Alpha-1 patients with emphysema symptoms. It is not appropriate for patients with liver-related complications. Treatments for Aplha-1 related liver problems focus only on relieving the symptoms. However, severe cases of A1AD may need liver transplants. Current experimental treatments include recombinant and A1AT inhaled forms. Other therapies being studied are focused on the prevention of polymer formation in the liver.
30211	There is no specific treatment to alter or prevent Alport syndrome. Steroids, antibiotics, anticoagulates and even immunosuppressives have no effect to fight this disease. However, some studies show that the control of hypertension and protein restriction may be used.
30213	A calcium channel blocker called flunarizine is the primary drug used for medical therapy. This drug reduces the severity and duration of paralysis episodes associated with the severe form alternating hemiplegia of childhood.
30214	Climbing down to a lower altitude as rapidly and safely as possible is the chief form of medication for all forms of mountain sickness; better if there is available supplementary source of oxygen. Those people with harsh mountain sickness may be conceded to a hospital.
30215	There is currently no treatment for altophobia.
30216	Mechanical ventilation, high concentrations of inspired oxygen, inhalational nitric oxide and ECMO support are included in the standard therapies. These treatments extend life by days to weeks, but haven't led to a long-term survival.
30217	Treatment includes hospitalization, medications, surgical removal of the cyst, taking of mebendazole and Albendazole.
30218	Treatment includes medicated dressings, flushing out the socket, pain medications and self-care treatments. A dentist should be consulted first to ensure proper medication is administered. In severe cases, a surgery may be required especially if it involves infection.
30220	The most effective treatment to EAA is to avoid the provoking allergen since chronic exposure could cause permanent damage or even death. Prednisolone and corticosteroids may also help relieve symptoms. However, these drugs could also produce unwanted side effects.
30221	Treatment includes undergoing chemotherapy and radiation therapy.
30223	There is no available cure for Alzheimer's disease. The medications available only offer benefits for patient's symptoms, but do not slow down the progression of the disease. However, behavioral and cognitive interventions as well as rehabilitation strategies may be used during the early to moderate stages of Alzheimer's disease. Therapies may include reminiscent therapy, counseling, psychotherapy, behavioral reinforcements, reality orientation therapy and cognitive rehabilitation training.
30224	Anyone who are experiencing Amaurosis are recommended to consult a physician when any form of vision loss, even temporary blindness, occur. This may be a symptom indicating a presence of a more serious ocular disease or systemic problem.
30225	Treatment options for ambiguous genitalia may include reconstructive surgery as well as hormone therapy to correct the hormonal imbalance. It is important to first distinguish the proper gender of the child before making any surgical or medical procedure. Treatment may also be based on the severity of the case.
30226	Treatments of amblyopia include forcing the use of amblyopic eye and correcting optical deficit. This could be done by instilling topical atropine and patching the good eye. Patients should also be cautious of over-patching the good eye during treatment because this could create a reverse amblyopia in the good eye. "Form deprivation amblyopia" is treated by removing opacity after patching the good eye. This is to encourage using the amblyopic eye.
30227	There is no available treatment for Ambras syndrome other than depilation.
30229	To compensate for soft enamel, crowns are usually used. Children with this condition usually use stainless steel crowns, which are replaced by porcelain crowns once they become adults. For severe cases of amelogenesis imperfecta, teeth could be extracted and replaced by dentures or implants.
30230	Treatments for amenorrhoea vary on a case-to-case basis. For women with low estrogen levels, estrogen therapy may be used, while those with key issues may need surgical correction. Treatments are not needed if a woman has no plans of having biological children, especially if the cause of amenorrhoea is not life threatening. The best way to cure athletic amenorrhoea is to reduce the amount of exercise. On the other hand, drug-induced amenorrhoea can be cured by stopping medication on doctor's advice.
30231	Available drugs for American trypanosomiasis are usually unsatisfactory. The current drugs available are usually ineffective and highly toxic, especially in the chronic stages of American trypanosomiasis. However, some drugs can be effective when the disease is still on the acute stages. The drugs used for acute American trypanosomiasis are nitroderivatives or azole, such as nifurtimox and benznidazole. However, there have been reports of resistance to these available medications. Since these drugs may cause adverse effects, it is recommended to take them only with medical supervision. In the chronic stages of American trypanosomiasis, treatment includes management of the clinical manifestations. However, the disease itself is not curable by any medication.
30232	Treatment for amnesia focuses on techniques and strategies to help make up for the memory problem. A person with amnesia may function with an occupational therapist to acquire new information to replace what was lost, or to use intact memories as a basis for taking in new information; usually involving a variety of strategies for arranging information so that it's easier to recall and for improving understanding of extended conversation.
30233	Treatment includes administration of medicine and hospitalization to observe the extent of the toxin in the body.
30234	At present there is no treatment that is made particularly for Amnetic Disorder however, it may be prevented through administration and treatment with the use of thiamin.
30235	The only treatment pf Amoebic dysentery is antibiotics such as metronidazole that can be prescribe by a physician. Since the disease is accompanied by dehydration, it is important for patients to seek immediate medical attention to prevent further complications.
30236	It is important to focus on maximizing the patient's capabilities at home and in the community. Positive reinforcement aids recovery by developing self-esteem and promoting independence.
30237	For primary amyloidosis, some of medications include: Peripheral blood stem cell transplantation and medicines. Peripheral blood stem cell relocation involves chemotherapy and transfusion of previously collected immature blood cells (stem cells) with the goal to replace diseased or damaged marrow.
30238	There is not treatment available yet for ALS.
30240	It is said to be that no known cure for ALS. The initial drug medication for the disease is a medicine called riluzole. Riluzole may extend life, but does not reverse or end the sickness from getting worse.
30241	The treatment of anal cancer depends on the size and location of the tumor, whether the cancer has spread, and the patient's overall health, including if the patient has HIV. In many cases, a team of doctors will operate with the patient to determine the best treatment plan. For anal cancer, there are three major types of treatment: surgery, radiation therapy, and chemotherapy.
30243	Anal fissures are fairly common and usually heal without treatment or with nonsurgical treatments. Symptoms may be gone within two weeks, but it may take up to eight weeks for the tear to heal. If the tear doesn't heal within six to eight weeks, however, you may require surgery. For babies, the only interference necessary may be changing the diaper regularly and keeping the anal area clean.
30244	Treatment of anal itching would normally depend on the cause of the problem. Most of the time, self-care treatments may be enough such as a change in the diet, infection treatment. However, there are some cases that would require surgery.
30245	Anaphylactic Shock is an emergency ailment requiring immediate professional medical attention. Estimation of the ABC's or the airway, breathing, and circulation from Basic Life Support should be completed in all unproven anaphylactic reactions.
30246	Treatment includes administration of anti- inflammatory drugs to alleviate pain such as aspirin, cortisone medication and cuclosphosphamide or Cytoxan.
30247	When Anaphylaxis occurs, first aid measures, such as rescue breathing is needed because airways may be constricted. Administration of adrenaline or epinephrine can also help prevent the progression of airway constriction. Patients with history of Anaphylaxis may carry preloaded syringes that contain diphenhydramine (benadryl), epinephrine or dexamethasone (decadron).
30248	Unlike other types of thyroid cancer, Anaplastic thyroid cancer is highly unlikely to be cured by surgery or other types of treatments. Anaplastic thyroid cancer cannot be removed by surgery because of its high propensity for affecting surrounding tissues. However, palliative treatments are available and may consist of radiation therapy combined with chemotherapy. New studies show that TNF-related Apoptosis Induced Ligand (TRAIL) and Bortezomib show positive results against Anaplastic thyroid cancer. However, more clinical tests outside the lab are still needed to confirm its effectiveness before it can be used for chemotherapy. The best treatment available for Anaplastic thyroid cancer is early detection and surgery, which is then followed by chemotherapy and radiotherapy for a larger chance of survival.
30249	Medication involves taking treatments to increase kidneys' output of water and sodium. Diuretics often used to cure edema include thiazide diuretics, and furosemide.
30250	The major decision with Androgen insensitivity syndrome is sex of assignment. Parents need to decide if the baby will be a boy or a girl. However, this assignment will depend on various factors, such as response of phallus to testosterone, surgical reconstruction outcome and pubertal development.
30251	Treatments for anemia vary depending on causes and severity. Mild to moderate cases of iron deficiency is treated by iron supplementation combined with ferrous sulfate. To absorb iron completely, Vitamin C may also be supplemented. Some doctors recommend vitamin supplementation of folic acid given orally or vitamin b12 given subcutaneously to replace various deficiencies. For severe cases of anemia, those with ongoing loss of blood, blood transfusion may be recommended. However, doctors usually avoid blood transfusion since many patients experience adverse effects.
30252	Diamond-Blackfan anemia treatments involve corticosteroids. In a study of 200 patients, over 80% responded to corticosteroids therapy. However, some side effects occur. Blood transfusions may also help treat severe cases of Diamond-Blackfan anemia. When remissions occur, steroid treatments are not recommended. For hematological aspects of Diamond-Blackfan anemia, bone marrow transplantation is needed. However, this type of treatment is only advised for transfusion-dependent patients because iron overloading or organ damage may occur.
30253	Since this condition manifests vitamin B12 deficiency, Pernicious anemia is treated by administering sufficient amounts of vitamin B12 through supplementation. Oral tablets are available; however, higher doses are usually given to Pernicious anemia patients. Vitamin B12 can also be administered through injection, which is normally given once a month to counter the deficiency.
30254	Sideroblastic anemia usually causes severe symptoms. As such, transfusion is often required, especially to patients that do not respond to "erythropoietin therapy".
30255	There is no cure, treatment or therapy available for Anencephaly patients. Prognosis of those affected is very poor. Most babies with Anencephaly do not survive after birth, accounting to over 50% of non-aborted deaths on babies. If an anencephalic baby is not stillborn, he or she usually die within hours or days from cardiorespiratory arrest.
30256	The treatments for arterial aneurysms are watchful waiting and control of blood pressure as well as surgical intervention. Recently, new invasive techniques, such as endovascular, is used in treating aneurysms. Brain aneurysms have two treatment options - endovascular coiling and surgical clipping. For aortic (heart) aneurysms that occur in vessels that supply blood to the head, arms and legs, surgery involves a replacement of the weakened section of the vessel with a graft or an artificial tube. Recently, metallic-covered stent grafts are inserted through the arteries and deployed through the aneurysm.
30257	Therapy for Aneurysm of sinus Valsalva includes controlling blood pressure by use of medicines, such as beta-blockers. However, the long-term treatment is surgical repair. Surgery for Aneurysm of sinus Valsalva is usually based on the rate of increase in size and the diameter of the aortic root, which are both determined through several echocardiography tests.
30258	Medications of this disease depend on the signs and symptoms of the person. Treatments include anti-seizure medication, communication therapy, physical therapy, and behavioral or social therapy.
30259	Treatment approach is usually a combination of medications, lifestyle changes and surgery. The goal is to reduce the severity of the condition and the accompanying symptoms. Invasive options include angioplasty, coronary artery bypass and stenting.
30259	In most cases, drugs are authorized for the medication of angina before surgery is considered. The classes of drugs include nitrates, and beta blocking drugs.
30260	Angina pectoris is treated with adequate rest and relaxation. In severe cases, surgery is required to improve oxygen circulation in the arteries.
30261	Treatment may include surgical removal of the diseased lymph node along with therapies that can help relieve the symptoms associated with the disease. Among the medications prescribed for this condition include chemotherapy, corticosteroids, antiviral drugs and immune modulators.
30262	Treatments for angiolipoma are not necessary, except for a few cases that become painful, which may lead to restrictions in movement. Many people have removed angiolipoma for cosmetic reasons. However, if these tumors are not removed entirely, the angiolipoma may grow back. The most common method to remove angiolipoma is excision. However, some people with angiolipoma prefer liposuction since it results in less scarring. However, doctors only recommend liposuction to tumors that are still soft and contain a small connective tissue component. Unfortunately, liposuction has greater tendency to remove the angiolipoma completely, which usually result in tumor re-growth.
30264	Treatment for Angiomatosis may include irradiation and surgical tumor removal. For eye tumors, cryosurgery, laser eye surgery and surgical tumor removal may be used. Always seek medical advice about Angiomatosis treatments.
30265	Treatments often recommended by Physicians for the patient includes control of the level of blood sugar, avoiding high blood pressure or hypertension, improving levels of cholesterol, monitoring the levels of protein in the urine called proteinuria, conduct eye tests to examine vessels and check dilated pupil, care for the feet, indulge in regular exercise to encourage blood circulation, healthy diet, getting and maintaining healthy weight, limiting intake of alcohol and definitely no smoking. Doctors may also recommend aspirin therapy.
30266	Treatment of the early stages of angiosarcoma usually includes surgical removal of the tumor with radiation and chemotherapy. In severe or later stages of the disease, treatment of angiosarcoma becomes difficult. However, it may still include radiation therapy and chemotherapy.
30267	The drug of choice for Anguillulosis is ivermectin. However, since this drug does not kill the larvae of adult worms, repeat dosages are required to completely cure the infection. Other drugs that are affective in killing the roundworms are thiabendazole and albendazole.
30268	Clotrimazole, nystatin and econazole are topical antifungals which are usually undertaken for the treatment of angular cheilitis. What may also be prescribed are combinations of a topical antifungal and a topical steroid such as mycostatin, hydrocortisone and triamcinolone or iodoquinol.
30270	Due to the high risk of cataracts and glaucoma, Aniridia sufferers need close observation by an ophthalmologist. Progressive glaucoma may persist from childhood into adulthood. Ophthalmologists may require you to take examinations to maximize visual functioning and controlling amelioriating light sensitivity. Some may even prescribe glasses or contact lenses because without iris functions, patients with Aniridia may become extremely sensitive to bright lights.
30271	Anisakiasis is common in humans because it is easily consumed through worms of under-processed fishes and through allergic reaction to various chemicals left by the worms on the flesh of fish. However, heating (up to 60 C) or freezing (below 20 C) can effectively kill Anisakis worms.
30272	Treatments for Anisometropia includes use of eyeglasses and contact lenses to correct visions.
30273	Ankle fracture requires immediate medical care to provide relief from the excruciating pain. Doctors evaluate the injury and immobilize the broken ankle using a splint to prevent further damage. A sedative or relaxant may be administered to reduce pain while the displaced bone is put back into place. For multiple ankle fractures, a surgery is usually required.
30274	Treatment for a sprained ankle will depend on the severity of the injury. In mild conditions, applying ice and taking pain medications may be enough to treat the condition along with giving the ankle enough rest. In some cases, an ankle brace may be necessary. In severe conditions, a cast or walking boot is required to stabilize the ankle and avoid causing further strain.
30275	Ankylosing spondylitis has no known cure. However, treatments are available to reduce its symptoms. Physical therapy is commonly used in conjunction with exercise and medication. Physical therapy and exercise reduces inflammation and pain commonly experienced with Ankylosing spondylitis since active inflammatory phase will make the pain worse. Three types of medications are recommended in treating Ankylosing spondylitis - analgesics, DMARDs and TNF blockers. Surgery can also be an option for joint replacements in severe cases.
30276	If patients suffer from a completely "ankylosed" elbow or shoulder, excision can be used to restore usefulness and mobility of the limbs.
30277	When hookworms are still in the infected skin, Ankylostomiasis could be treated with local cryotherapy. Albendazole can be effectively used when the hookworms are still migrating under the skin or even in the intestinal stages. For patients with Ankylostomiasis-related anemia, iron supplements could relieve iron deficiency symptoms.
30278	To confirm Annular pancreas in newborns, ultrasound, CT scan, abdominal x-ray and series of upper GI and small bowel can be used immediately after birth. Treatment to Annular pancreas is usually done by bypassing obstructed segments of the duodenum using a process called "duodenostomy". Laparoscopic gastrojejunostomy is another method that can be used to treat Annular pancreas.
30279	Ano-rectal atresia usually require surgery for the feces to have an open passage. Depending on the severity of the disease, Ano-rectal atresia is treated with colostomy or a perineal anoplasty.
30281	There is no specific treatment for Anonychia Microcephaly. Treatments available are symptomatic and supportive. Life expectancy of children with Anonychia Microcephaly is reduced. The prognosis of normal brain function is poor, but may vary depending on the presence of related abnormalities.
30282	Early treatments for Anophthalmia include surgery and expanders. It would decrease the cosmetic deformities and orbital asymmetry that develop in Anophthalmia patients.
30284	Tests for Anorchia check the X,Y karyotype, low testosterone levels, elevated luteinizing hormone levels and follicle stimulating hormones. Anorchia patients are also required to get an ultrasound to show if gonadal tissues are absent, check low bone density and determine if anti-mullerian hormone levels are low. Surgical exploration may also be required to obtain evidences of male gonadal tissues. Treatments for Anorchia include testicular prosthetic implantation, androgen supplementation and psychological support.
30285	Since Anorexia nervosa can be fatal, the first line of treatment is weight gain. In serious cases of Anorexia nervosa, patients can be forced to hospital treatment. However, most cases of Anorexia nervosa can be treated as outpatients with treatments assigned by a physician, a psychiatrist and other mental health professionals.
30286	While it may be quite difficult to fully treat anorgasmia, a combination of three approaches can prove beneficial such as understand the body better, an increase of sexual stimulation, and counseling and therapy.
30288	Treatment includes administration of medicines that induce ovulation such as clomiphene citrate and pergonal which is the hormone responsible for stimulating the pituitary on the ovary.
30289	Treatment includes restoration of oxygen supply, cardiovascular restoration and undergoing treatments focusing on how to establish an adequate airways in the body.
30290	Surgery can be carried out which is aimed at either repairing or reconstruction. Repairing involves suturing the torn ligament. There are two options for reconstructing a torn anterior cruciate ligament: Extraarticular technique which utilizes a structure outside the joint capsule like a part of hamstring tendon and Intraarticular technique which uses a portion from within the knee.
30291	There is no cure for Anterior horn disease. The only medicine used for Anterior horn disease patients is "riluzole".
30292	Treatment for the illness is done by massage therapy and relaxation to ease the muscles that surround the knee. Surgery meanwhile is recommended for serious injuries like bone fractures. Physical and occupational therapies meanwhile are advised to help speed up the recovery process and strengthen the knee bones and muscles.
30293	Direct spread of anthrax from person-to-person is unlikely, but contaminated clothes or infected bodies can transfer to people. Decontamination of anthrax can be done by washing with soap and water, bleach, chlorine or an anti-microbial agent. It can also be decontaminated through boiling the contaminated articles in water for at least 30 minutes or burning the clothes. After decontamination, immunization, isolation and treatments are not needed. However, antibiotics such as ciprofloxacin, doxycyline, erythromycin, penicillin and vancomycin can be used orally or intravenously to treat anthrax infection. The most effective form of treatment against anthrax is vaccination. However, this should be done before exposure to the disease.
30294	Since the treatment or solution is still being studied it is suggested that taking in combinations of antibiotics helps in the treatment of patients.
30296	Treatments involves medications such as probiotic supplement to help bring back the natural balance of the digestive tract.
30297	Once diagnosed to be an antibiotic-associated disease, antibiotic-caused colitis can be treated by no longer using the disease-causing drug. Oral treatments such as vanomycin are given to eliminate the bacteria. Oral therapy is also recommended to replenish lost fluids due to dehydration.
30299	Antiphospholipid syndrome is treated by administering aspirin to inhibit the platelet activation. Some doctors recommend warfarin as anti-coagulant. Pregnant patients of APS require low-dose aspirin and low molecular weight heparin. Women with recurrent miscarriages are usually advised to take aspirin after missing a menstrual period.
30302	Treatment of the disorder is done by intravenous infusions of alpha-1 antitrypsin that came from donated plasma. However, this treatment is not recommended to persons suffering from liver disease. Liver transplant may be needed for severe cases.
30304	Treatment for Anuria includes administration of Mannitol which increases the blood flow to the kidney; Dextrose and Dopamine to produce and induce urination and surgical treatments.
30305	Treatment of an aortic aneurysm involves control of blood pressure. Although controlling blood pressure does not cure Aortic aneurysm, it could control hypertension and reduce the rate of aneurysm growth. The most effective treatment of Aortic aneurysm is surgical repair of the aorta. This process involves opening of the dilated part of the aorta and insertion of a synthetic patch tube, which is sewn into the distal and proximal parts of the aorta. If a patient has a quick expanding aneurysm, immediate operation is require to prevent the chances of rupture. Slow expanding aneurysm may need routine diagnostic testing. The current treatment available for abdominal aortic aneurysm is elective surgical repair only when the aneurysm's diameter is larger than 5 cm. The endovascular treatment for abdominal aortic aneurysm involves placing an endovascular stent using a percutaneous method (via the femoral arteries) into the affected part of the aorta.
30306	Aortic arch interruption can be diagnosed with an echocardiogram. Treatment of this condition consists of open-heart surgery immediately after birth. Before surgery, administration of prostaglandin can be used to keep the "ductuc arteriosus" open, allowing normal blood flow to the lower body. After surgery, no unusual lifestyle or restriction will apply. However, since aortic arch interruption usually occur along with cardiac defects, long-term treatment and follow-ups will be needed. Re-operation is necessary only when new or recurring problems after surgery occur. In addition, patient with aortic arch interruption may need lifelong treatment against infective endocarditis - a condition characterized by an inflamed interior lining or valve of the heart.
30308	The risk of death caused by Aortic dissection is highest during the first several hours after dissection starts and decreases afterwards. As such, therapeutic methods vary for acute dissection and chronic dissection. If high blood pressure is present, patients would be medicated to control blood pressure. Medical management of Aortic dissection is usually focused in lowering blood pressure and reducing shear-force dP/dt. For this reason, vasodilators combined with a beta blocker is used to reduce shear stress. Calcium channel blockers are also effective in treating Aortic dissection. Severe Aortic dissection calls for surgical treatment.
30309	In adults, aortic stenosis typically requires aortic valve replacement if medical management does not successfully control symptoms. According to a prospective, single-center, nonrandomized study of 25 patients, percutaneous implantation of an aortic valve prosthesis in high risk patients with aortic stenosis leads to marked hemodynamic and clinical improvement when successfully completed. For infants and children, balloon valvuloplasty, where a balloon is inflated to stretch the valve and allow greater flow, may also prove to be effective.
30310	Treatment of aortic valve regurgitation would usually depend on the degree of the regurgitation based on the signs and symptoms. Surgery may require correcting the problem and preventing the weakening of the heart muscles. This may include either a valve repair or valve replacement.
30311	Aortic valve stenosis can be treated with various medications to control symptoms. However, surgery is the primary cure for this condition. An aortic valve replacement is done if medications do not control symptoms. For infants and children, balloon valvuloplasty is an effective method to cure Aortic valve stenosis.
30312	To avoid suture closing in the skull and prevent damages to brain development, surgery is necessary. A combination of orthognathic and orthodontic surgery could relieve facial deformities. A common surgical procedure used for Apert syndrome patients is LeFort III, a method used in detaching the mid-face from the rest of the skull.
30313	Speech-language therapy can be effective when carried out in the early stages. Aphasia therapy is aimed at improving the individual's ability to communicate by using remaining abilities and in re-establishing language the best way possible.
30314	For mild cases of Aphthous stomatitis, home remedies, such as antacid, sulfuric acid and licorice root can help relieve the symptoms. However, severe cases may require steroid treatments, such as methylprednisolone. Some may need pulsed prenisone if ulcers do not respond to any local treatment. Other treatments used include Thalidomide, silver nitrate and Aphthasol. Controversial therapies for Aphthous stomatitis include tetracycline, dapsone, gamma-globulin, estrogen replacement, colchicines, levamisole and MAOIs.
30315	Treatment for cankers sores usually include mouth rinse, a topical paste, and oral medications that are intended for canker sores. Debacterol is one of the popular topical solution that cauterizes the lesions and reduces the healing in lesser time. However, the cankers sores may just be an underlying symptom of a more serious medical condition.
30317	Diagnosis of Aplastic anemia can only be confirmed through a bone marrow exam after blood tests for full blood count, liver enzymes, renal function and electrolytes, thyroid function exams, folic acid levels and vitamin B12 levels. In the past, treatments of Aplastic anemia patients with low leukocyte counts are confined to a bubble or sterile room to reduce the risks of infections. To treat Aplastic anemia, suppression of the immune system combined with daily medications are necessary. However, for severe cases of Aplastic anemia, a bone marrow transplant can cure the disorder, but can be a risky procedure. Medical therapies for Aplastic anemia include a course of anti-thymocyte globulin, several months of cyclosporine, which are both used in modulating the immune system. Mild chemotherapy can also be used with vincristine or cyclophosphamide. Some recommend antibodies therapies for target T-cells and ATG, which are both believed to attack bone marrows.
30318	Infantile apnea is a rare condition in healthy and full-term babies. This condition usually resolves as the infant ages.
30319	The treatment of postanesthetic apnea usually involves mechanical ventilation until the excess anesthetic drugs metabolize to resume normal breathing.
30320	There is no specific cure for Apocrine duct occlusion. However, oral antibiotics, topical steroids, topical retinoids and clindamycin solution may be prescribed to help alleviate the itchiness. Other therapies may include surgical excision, ultraviolet radiation, dermabrasion, liposuction and anti-androgenic hormonal therapy. Some cases clear up during pregnancy or menopause for unknown reasons. However, the disease could persist afterwards.
30321	Treatment for Apparent mineralocorticoid excess is primarily focused in correcting hypertension and hypokalemia. Doctors recommend the MR receptor antagonist spironolactone as medication to protect receptors against excessive mineralocorticoid. Reduction in supplemental potassium and dietary sodium is usually instructed. AME patients with "nephrocalcinosis" may require thiazide diuretic. Anti-hypertensive drugs, such as amiloride and thiazides may be helpful as the disease progresses.
30322	Treatment of appendicitis usually starts by keeping patient from drinking and eating anything to prepare for surgery. Since water is also prohibited, an intravenous drip is used to hydrate the appendicitis patient. Antibiotics, such as metronidazole and cefuroxime are given intravenously to help in killing bacteria early, while reducing the spread of infections in the abdomen and preventing postoperative complications in the wound or abdomen. If a patient has eaten no food in the past 6 hours, general anesthesia is used. Otherwise, doctors will use spinal anesthesia. An Appendicectomy - the surgery procedure for removing the appendix - is performed via a laparoscopic approach or three small incisions using a camera to visualize the abdomen. If findings confirm appendicitis with associated complications such as adhesions, abscess, rupture and other symptoms, conversion to open laparotomy is required. Surgery for mild cases of appendicitis takes 15 minutes in thin patients and several hours for complicated cases. Length of hospital stays may vary from overnight to several days.
30323	Babies with Apple Peel Syndrome require surgery after birth, depending on the extent of the disease and location of the atresia.
30324	There is no known and proven treatment for apraxia. Some therapies are only used for improving the effectiveness of communication. Some techniques used for aplaxia include traditional articulate therapy, singing, finger tapping and EMG feedback to reduce tension.
30326	There is no known treatment for Arachnitis. However, medications and therapies are available to relieve pain. These include pain medications, narcotic pain relievers, anti-convulsants and anti-spasm drugs. Physical therapy, spinal cord stimulator devices and transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation may be also be used. Surgery is not recommended in treating this condition.
30328	Treatment options include physical therapies to improve joint mobility or braces to provide stability. Heart monitoring is also necessary to check for cardiovascular complications that may arise due to the symptoms present.
30329	usually the treatment for this disease is directed to the symptoms not on the cyst itself. However if the condition is worse it will result to surgery. During surgery a tool called a shunt is inserted between the cyst to drain the liquid from the cyst to the abdominal space or to the brain ventricles which relieves the pressure. Endoscopic fenestration another treatment that allows the fluid from the cyst to flow through the normal cerebrospinal fluid pathway using an endoscope to cut a tiny hole in the cyst. A simple treatment being done is the burr hole or the draining of liquid using a needle aspiration. it may be simple but the cysts can still occur. Some medicines may help relieve pain or seizure in patients but most often surgery has the best outcome.
30330	Treatment options for Arachnoidal Fibroblastoma depend on the patient's health as well as the location and size of the tumor. Surgery can be used if the tumor can be removed without complications. If not, radiotherapy and chemotherapy are used.
30331	It is known that arachnoiditis is not easy to cure. The medication can go as far as relieving pain and several signs. Even surgical operations cannot totally cure the disease because at first the condition of the patient progresses but as years pass by the disease occurs again which only provide momentary aid. Injections such as steroid injections are not advised because it has been associated as a cause of the disease. Medications to ease the pain are the most common treatment for arachnoiditis. Steroidal and non-steroidal non-inflammatory drugs with narcotic and non-narcotic pain medications are also advised for treatment. Embedding small electrodes is another pain management method or also known as direct spinal cord stimulation. These electrodes are embedded beneath the skin where the affected roots of the nerves are located. It is battery-powered that applies gentle current which reduces pain.
30333	The main intervention for patient with ARDS is to provide high concentration oxygen through face mask or sometimes physician will advise to connect the patient to breathing machine that are called ventilator. The ventilator is done through endotracheal tube or through tracheotomy. This machine provides proper level of oxygen to the body until the lungs of the patient heals. Nasogastric tube to give food, if does not work intravenous feeding is prescribe. Medication such as antibiotics for infection, pain relievers, anti anxiety drugs, drugs that stimulate the heart to increase the blood pressure and muscle relaxant is also prescribe to the patient.
30334	Treatment for the disease can be done by bone marrow transplant, immunosuppressive therapy and transfusions of platelets and red blood cells.
30339	Treatment for an arm fracture involves emergency procedure to immobilize that are an prevent further damage as well as provide temporary relief from pain. A splint is usually used to stabilize the fractured area and a muscle relaxant or sedative is administered to help manage pain. Surgery, pain medications and rehabilitation may be required to fully help recover the proper functioning of the arm.
30340	Once suggestive inception takes place, the most common action is decompression operation, in which a neurosurgeon looks for to open the base of the head as well as through a variety of techniques unrestricting CSF flow to the spine. This cure is well acknowledged as well as established through a lot of studies in print (relating an entirety of hundreds of patients) in well appreciated peer evaluation health papers presenting that around 80% of patients gain development. A little figure of neurological surgeons consider to de-tethering the spinal cord as another move toward relieving the firmness of the brain adjacent to the skull opening (foramen magnum) obviating the necessity in support of decompression operation moreover related pain. On the other hand, this move is considerably not as much of recognized in the health literature by means of information on merely a handful of patients. It must be distinguished that the other spinal surgical treatment is in addition not without danger
30341	The common treatments for ARVC include the prescription of beta-blockers such as amiodarone or sotalol to effectively lower proarrhythmic risk. Some patients may also require implantable cardioverter defibrillator. Heart transplantation may also be considered in severe cases with patients in the end stage heart failure.
30343	Treatment includes under going a chelation therapy.
30345	The condition can be treated with various medications in order to slow or even reverse the effects of the disease including cholesterol medications to reverse the buildup of fatty deposits in the arteries. Anticoagulants like heparin to help thin the blood to prevent clot formation. Blood pressure medications to control hypertension and help slow the progression of the condition. Surgery like angioplasty and bypass surgery are aggressive treatment for the disease.
30346	Treatment options include removal of lesion by means of surgery and embolization procedures.
30349	The treatment differs depending on the kind of arthritis and involves physical and occupational therapy, changes in lifestyle which includes weight loss and exercise and medications. To erode appearance of arthritis, arthroplasty may be required. Researches have revealed that physically exercising the affected joint can have evident development in terms of long-term pain relief. Also, work out of the aching joint is encouraged to sustain the healthiness of the particular joint and the general body of the individual.
30350	Children with the disease are administered with NSAIDs to ease the pain and prevent further inflammation. This kind of arthritis however, is chronic.
30351	The management of JIA is best taken by a knowledgeable team of medical experts, as well as pediatric rheumatologists, nurse specialists, physiotherapists, occupational therapists, chiropractors and psychologists. A lot of individual in the wider health and school societies also have important part to play, such as ophthalmologists, dentists, orthopaedic surgeons, school nurses and teachers, careers advisors and, of course local general practitioners, pediatricians and rheumatologists. It is important that each attempt is made to occupy the affected child and their family in ailment education and impartial treatment results. There has been very positive progress in drug cure over the last 20 years. Nearly all children are cared for with non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs and intra-articular corticosteroid injections. Methotrexate is a strong drug that aids to restrain joint swelling in the majority of JIA patients with polyarthritis and systemic arthritis. Newer drugs have been created lately, for instance TNF alpha blockers, which emerge to be efficient in rigorous JIA. There is small or no prohibited proof to maintain the utilization of unusual medicine for instance exact nutritional elimination, homeopathic cure or acupuncture.
30352	Treatment for septic arthritis most commonly involves antibiotics to target the infection. Resting, refraining from movements, elevating the affected limbs, applying a warm compress, and performing basic exercises may also help in pain relief. Severe cases of septic arthritis usually require surgical intervention to drain synovial fluid from the infected joint.
30353	Thumb arthritis may be treated with a number of self-care measures, significant lifestyle changes to lessen the stress on the affected joint, as well as using splints, medications, or corticosteroid injections. Severe thumb arthritis may require surgery.
30355	Although there is no treatment, indications and abnormalities might still be improved with a variety of techniques because of several contractures and limitations. 1. Physical therapy involvement as well as stretching that can consist of casting and splinting program of affected joints, strengthening, mobility exercise, are started to develop flexion and variety of movement. 2. Occupational therapy involvement can consist of exercising in ADL and fine motor skills as well as dealing with psychosocial and emotional repercussions of a chronic condition. 3. Orthopedic surgery - While there are a variety of unusual deformities, separately modified orthopedic alteration is required. Orthopedic surgery is typically required to correct rigorously affected joints and limbs and indications for instance clubfoot, hernia restoration and alteration if unilateral hip disorder happens. Physical and occupational therapy has confirmed very advantageous for most kinds of Arthrogryposis because it improves muscle strength and function and increasing the range of movement of affected joints. To expand the stretching exercises to enhance range of movement, splints can be prepared. Casting is regularly used to develop foot position. Though, importance must be positioned on attaining as much joint mobility as possible. Several kinds of detachable splint like a bi- valve cast maybe utilized on knees and feet so that the joints can be stimulated and muscles used occasionally. In several cases, just using a splint at night may be enough. Surgery must be analyzed as a helpful evaluation to additional types of cure when they have attained their maximum end result. Surgeries are usually executed on ankles to put feet in position for weight-bearing and walking. Less frequently, surgery is necessary on knees, hips, elbows and wrists to attain enhanced position or better range of movement. In several cases, tendon relocation has been made to develop muscle function.
30356	There is no treatment for MLD or even a normal type of cure. Children with complex juvenile or adult onset and late infantile patients showing symptoms include treatment partially to pain and symptom management. Presymptomatic late infantile MLD patients, in addition to individuals with juvenile or adult MLD that are also presymptomatic or showing gentle to fair symptoms, have the alternative of bone marrow transplantation that includes stem cell transplantation which may delay the development of the ailment, or discontinue its development in the inner nervous system, though consequences in the peripheral nervous system have been less remarkable and the long term involves of these therapies have confirm varied outcomes. Treatment alternatives for the future that are presently being considered comprise gene therapy and enzyme replacement therapy (ERT), substrate reduction therapy (SRT), and potentially an enzyme enhancement therapy (EET). A team of international researchers and foundations has prepared to structure an International MLD Registry to make and deal with a common repository of facts, as well as the natural history of MLD. This group consists of scientific, academic and industry funds. The registry is not up and working as of December, 2007, however the team is hopeful that this will change in 2008.
30357	Treatment for Asbestos Poisoning focus more on the symptoms as they manifest and includes relieving respiratory symptoms such as undergoing chest physiotherapy techniques and aerosol therapy fluid intake. Administration of diuretics, cardiac glycosides and salt restrictions may also be used to treat the effects of the asbestos poisoning.
30358	There is no medicinal treatment for this disease. Oxygen therapy at home is frequently required to ease the shortness of breath. Supportive treatment of symptom consists of respiratory physiotherapy to get rid of discharges from the lungs by postural drainage, chest percussion, and vibration. Nebulized medicine to slight discharges can be given.
30359	Pharmaceutical cures involve: 1. Mebendazole (Vermox) (C16H13N3O2) - Causes deliberate control and death of the worms by selectively and permanently blocking uptake of glucose and additional nutrients in vulnerable adult intestine where helminths reside. Oral dose is 100 mg 12 hourly for 3 days. 2. Piperazine (C4H10N2.C6H10O4) - A lifeless paralyzing agent which causes a blocking reaction of ascaris muscle to acetylcholine. The narcotizing result stops the worm, which stops passage when cure is accomplished with feeble drugs for instance thiabendazole. If utilized by itself it causes the worm to be passed out in the feces. Dose is 75 mg/kg (max 3.5 g) as a single oral dosage. 3. Pyrantel pamoate (Antiminth, Pin-Rid, Pin-X) (C11H14N2S.C23H16O6) - Depolarizes ganglionic mass of nicotinic neuromuscular spreading resulting in raging paralysis of the worm. Spastic (tetanic) paralyzing agents, in particular pyrantel pamoate, can bring total intestinal difficulty in a serious worm load. Dose is 11 mg/kg not to go beyond 1 g as a single dosage. 4. Albendazole (C12H15N3O2S) - A wide-ranging antihelminthic agent that reduces ATP creation in the worm, causing energy reduction, stopping, and lastly death. Dose is 400 mg known as single oral dosage (contraindicated during pregnancy and children less than 2 years). 5. Thiabendazole - This can cause movement of the worm into the esophagus, so it is typically shared with piperazine. 6. Hexylresorcinol - efficient in single dose. 7. Santonin - more poisonous than Hexylresorcinol. 8. Oil of chenopodium - more poisonous than Hexylresorcinol. Furthermore, corticosteroids can care for several of the symptoms for instance swelling. Several current studies exist in the health literature signifying that sun-dried papaya and watermelon seeds might decrease diseases by a huge aspect. The adult dose is one tablespoon of the seed powder in a glass of sugar water once a week for two weeks. The sugar creates the bitter flavor safe to eat and works as a laxative.
30360	Aortic dissection is an unexpected event, thus a person who suffers from the illness should be given immediate medical attention. Drugs used under intensive care are used to lower blood pressure.
30361	Treatment for Ascites includes salt restrictions, administration of diuretics which should be monitored daily and in some cases a liver transplantation.
30362	In most cases, small ASD may close on its own during infancy or early childhood. However, long-standing ASD has the potential to damage the hearts and lungs, thus decreasing the lifespan of affected patients. To treat ASD of this scale, surgical intervention becomes necessary to repair the hole and avoid further complications. Some surgical methods available for ASD treatment are cardiac catheterization and open-heart surgery. Some medications may also be recommended to alleviate some of the symptoms, although drug therapy alone won't close the hole.
30363	If the causative organism has been identified and has a specific therapy, Anti-pathogenic should be started. Broad-pectrum antibiotic cover must be started for bacteria, although true aseptic meningitis cannot be caused by pyogenic bacteria, as the cost of misdiagnosing bacterial meningitis are terrible, and quite by far passed up. Local sensitivities must be taken into account for non-pyogenic bacteria however usually broad-spectrum is best. Several bacteria are usually receptive to certain drugs such as rifampicin is good for Brucella. For viruses, HSV, varicella and CMV have a specific antiviral therapy other viruses do not. Acyclovir treatment is the choice for HSV. For fungi, Amphotericin B and fluconazole are the finest anti-fungal in most conditions. Supportive, this will be the bulk of the treatment. Analgesia, fluids and antiemetics must cover most situations. Antipyretics must be used wisely and fever can be a natural reaction. Steroids are not suggested except elevated intracranial stress happens. If seizure occurs, phenytoin and other anticonvulsants can be used but prophylaxis is not advised.
30366	Communication and social skills training carries out unwritten rules in socialization and communication with the aim to teach in an explicit fashion compared to normal teaching. Cognitive Behavior Therapy focuses on training a child to identify a troublesome situation and selected a specifically learned strategy to cope with the situation.
30367	To treat this fungal infection these drugs are used caspofungin, amphotericin B, flucytosine, voriconazole and itraconazole
30374	In treating childhood asthma, the main objectives are to get the asthma under control, minimize symptoms, decrease or eliminate further attacks, enable children to engage in physical activity without limitations, minimize the use of inhalers, as well as prevent any side effects from medications. Preventive drugs such as anti-inflammatory medications and a fast-acting bronchodilator (inhaler) lessen the inflammation in the airways, thus opening them up and allowing affected children to breathe easier. Bronchodilators are fast-acting medications used to stop the symptoms of an attack in progress. Symptoms and triggers often change over time, so treatment is periodically evaluated and updated to ensure that childhood asthma is always under control.
30375	Exercise-induced asthma can be treated with the same medications used for treating regular asthma. Depending on the severity and/or frequency of attacks, physicians may prescribe: short-acting bronchodilators, mast cell stabilizers, long-acting beta-2 agonist or LABA, leukotriene modifiers, or corticosteroid inhalers.
30376	In treating astigmatism, the goal is to even out the distorted curvature that's causing vision problems. Most cases involve prescribing corrective lenses and/or recommending refractive surgery to correct the distorted cornea or lens. Some refractive surgical procedures available today include: Laser-assisted in-situ keratomileusis or LASIC surgery; PRK or photorefractive keratectomy; and Laser-assisted subepithelial keratomileusis or LASEK.
30377	Efficient survival may be attained for many years with resection of the tumor. It has been reported that patients who undergone resection lived for up to 5 years and has gone over to 90% to well resected tumors. For tumors that transformed malignantly requires chemotherapy or radiation therapy. After therapy or treatment there are chances that the tumor re-occurs and the treatment is the same with the initial tumor but it is more aggressive. In unusual cases, the tumor creates on or two types of cells wherein the treatment kills the first cell leaving the second cell immune to the treatments.
30378	For the moment there is no known treatment for Ataxia although there might be a treatment for its underlying causes. Ataxia disability may be decreased with physical therapy and exercise, with leg braces, a cane or walker is useful when foot alignment is affected.
30380	The treatment aims to correct the underlying causes of the condition. Post-surgical atelectasis is often treated by physiotherapy. Patients are also advised to keep moving around and to use incentive spirometer during breathing exercises. The use of ventilators could also greatly help. If any infections develop, antibiotics should be administered.
30380	Treatment is directed at correcting the underlying cause of the disease. Post-surgical atelectasis is treated by physiotherapy, concentrating on deep breathing and encouraging coughing. An incentive spirometer is typically used as part of the breathing exercises. Ambulation is also a highly encouraged method for improving lung inflation. People with chest deformities or neurologic conditions that result to shallow breathing for long periods may benefit from mechanical devices that assist their breathing. One method is continuous positive airway pressure, which delivers pressurized air or oxygen via a nose or face mask to help ensure that the alveoli do not collapse, even at the end of a breath.
30382	Treatment for Atheroma includes administration of medicine especially that of aspirin which helps to lessen the stickinessof the blood cells, undergoing bypass surgery.
30388	Atresia is corrected by operations although it depends on the type and severity of the condition of the patient.
30389	Treatments include medications and procedures that aim to reset the heart rhythm to normal or control the heart rate and to prevent blood clot formation. Medications include blood thinners, cardioversion drugs, and anti-arrhytmics to help prevent future episodes of atrial fibrillation. If medications and cardioversion techniques won't work to control atrial fibrillation surgical and catheter interventions are carried out.
30390	Treatment includes therapies that focus more on the restoration of the normal rate of the heart and sinus rhythm, undergoing defibrillation or the DC Cardioversion.
30391	The tumor must be eradicated through surgery. Other patients require their mitral valve to be restored and this can be performed during the surgery. In some cases, the tumor reoccurs if the tumors are not all removed.
30392	Patients with ASD that is not complicated and with evident large left-to-right shunting operative repair is advised. The operation is done usually when the patient is between ages 2 and 4. Operation must not be performed on patients that have small abnormalities and insignificant left-to-right shunts while patients who have large abnormalities, may require immediate operational closure and stitches to or a patch graft. Catheter closure or transcatheter closure has been developed by physicians as a new procedure. The surgeon creates a small incision in the groin to insert the catheters and moves the catheters into the heaet and places the closure device in ASD diagonally. Take note that this procedure is not applicable to all patients.
30393	In most cases, atrioventricular canal defect needs to be surgically treated by closing a hole in the septum with permanent patches. The mitral valve may need to be repaired or replaced surgically. In addition, surgery may involve the separation of single valves into two valves. Following surgical intervention, affected patients will require antibiotics, medications to target symptoms, plus life-long medical care by a specialist.
30394	Surgery - entails closing of the atrial and ventricular septal abnormalities and reinstallation of a capable left AV valve as far as is possible. A heart-lung machine is needed when open surgery is done with a median sternotomy. Percutaneous endovascular procedures - less invasive, performed on a beating heart but are merely appropriate for certain patients. Rates of death during surgery in experienced centers is less than 10% that is for complete abnormalities and not more than 5% for partial abnormalities. For infants that are newly born they are not immediately operated rather close attention is needed to monitor the condition of the infant. Operation is not yet done until the initial signs of the lung distress and heart failure occur.
30397	Treatment for attachment disorder is often multi-disciplinary, involving psychotherapy and some medications. Therapy usually involves the affected children and their parents and/or caregivers. Treatment is focused on creating a stable living situation for the children. While there's no standard approach to treatment, the following are the most common methods used: individual psychotherapy and family therapy; recreation or occupational therapy; parenting skill classes plus special education services; residential/inpatient treatment for patients with self-destructive tendencies; as well as standard medications to treat related conditions such as anxiety, depression, or hyperactivity.
30399	Treatment includes undergoing speech therapist.
30400	There is no specific treatment for the disorder. Behavioral adjustments amongst people surrounding the patient are required, as well as moral support from family and friends. Organizations have also been established to help people with APD cope with their everyday lives.
30401	There is no treatment for autism. Approaches include behavioral and communication therapies aimed at reducing problem behaviors, teaching new skills to teach children how to act properly in social situations and to encourage better communication with others. While there are no specific medications to treat autism, certain drugs are used to control repetitive and aggressive behaviors such as antipsychotic drugs and stimulants.
30404	There are a lot of treatment approaches for peripheral neuropathy that are suggestive or symptomatic. Several recent studies in animal prototypes has exhibited that neurotrophin-3 can go against the demyelination evident in some peripheral neuropathies.
30406	The cure for Autonomic dysfunction is not yet known. But there are medications or drugs to help in stabilizing the patients condition though it is required for a long period of time. Oter way to treat the disease is to treat the initial/primary diseases and the treatment of which is supportive and symptomatic. The following drugs fludrocortisone, midodrine, ephedrine, and SSRIs may also be used to treat the symptoms. Though curing this disease is quite difficult and treating a patient may worsen the condition of the patient. Other treatments are discovered through trial and error.
30407	Treatment is done by removing the fluids of the gall bladder using catheterization.
30408	Treatment for Avascular Necrosis includes adminsitration of Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs or NSAIDs for brevity, aspirin, ibuprofen and bisphosphonate medications. Therapies like electrical stimulation therapy and surgery like core decompression, bone reshaping or Osterotomy, bone transplant and joint replacement may also be advised for some cases.
30409	Currently, the primary treatment for avian influenza is a flu drug known as oseltamivir or Tamiflu, which prevents the virus from replicating. Zanamivir or Relenza is another medication which has some antiviral efficacy.
30410	Cognitive-behavioral techniques used in psychotherapy can often be useful in the treatment plan. Antidepressant medications are prescribed to reduce sensitivity to rejection. A combination of both counseling therapy and medications can be more effective than a single treatment plan.
30411	Some people treat axillary hyperhidrosis with extensive use of deodorants and anti-perspirants. Meanwhile a procedure called Endoscopic Thoracic Sympathectomy (ETC) has been proven effective to stop the sweating.
30413	Treatment for Azoospermia includes counseling and undergoing Vitamin B Therapy, human chorionic gonadotropin of hCG therapy.
30414	The treatment of non-Hodgkin lymphoma may differ depending on tumor stage, phenotype, histology, symptoms, performance status, the age of the patient, and comorbidities.
30415	Almost 50% of Babesiosis cases are resolved without any kind of treatment. However, severe patients are given a two-drug regimen (clindamycin and quinine). Unfortunately, these two drugs are often poorly tolerated. New studies suggest a combination of azithromycin and atovaquone can be just as effective. For extremely serious cases of Babesiosis, patients require exchange transmission - a procedure wherein infected red blood cells are removed then replaced with new ones. For animals with Babesiosis, antibiotics are not advisable. Instead, drugs such as diminazene, trypan blue or imidocarb are used in treating "Babesia Canis Rossi" or "dogs in Africa", "Babesia Bigemina" (cattle in Southern Africa) and "Babesia boyis". A vaccine for the dogs in the Mediterranean (Babesia canis canis) is effective. However, this will not work for dogs in Africa or the "babesia canis rossi". Dogs in Southeast Asia (or "Babesia imitans") cause a mild form of this disease that usually resolves even without any kind of treatment.
30416	Baby acne normally disappears after a few weeks; although it has been known to persist for a month or longer in some cases. While no specific treatment is required, some common home care methods include: keeping the infant's face constantly clean by frequently washing it with water; gently drying the baby's face; and avoiding pinching, scrubbing, or irritating the lesions. In cases where the acne is particularly stubborn, a physician may recommend a medicated cream to apply on affected areas.
30417	Treatment for baby blues includes counseling and therapy.
30418	The best way to treat baby bottle tooth decay is by prevention. Do not allow your baby to sleep with a bottle sucked on the mouth or feed him to much sweets to avoid tooth decay. Oral hygiene should also be practiced.
30419	BA can be treated by antibiotics such as erythromycin.
30420	Scoliosis can be treated by orthopedic treatments and physical therapy. Other patients are required to wear braces to maintain proper posture and keep the back from getting deformed. Maintenance of good posture is likewise important to prevent the onset of the disease.
30421	Most cases of back pain are resolved after a few weeks of home treatment and a period of rest. In more serious cases, however, some medications such as nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs and some types of antidepressants may be necessary. Additionally, physical therapy and exercise are integral parts of treatment. Very rarely, surgery may be recommended to correct the underlying structural anomalies that cause the pain.
30422	Treatment includes administration of antibiotics to kill the bacteria.
30423	High dose of antibiotics - supervised by the intravenous path to take advantage of the dispersion of antibiotic molecules into vegetative from the blood filling the heart's chambers. Antibiotics are taken for about two to six weeks. Surgical removal of the valve - needed in patients who stop to clear micro-organisms from their blood in reaction to antibiotic therapy or in patients where the cardiac failure develops due to the damage of a valve infection. An artificial valve is substituted to the removed valve it can be obtained from an animal like pig or it can be mechanical or metallic. The treatment depends on the category of the endocarditis as subacute or acute. Acute necessitating treating for Staphylococcus aureus with oxacillin or vancomycin in addition to gram-negative coverage is used. Anti-fungal treatment like amphotericin B is needed for fungal endocarditis. The mortality in infective endocarditis is around 25%.
30425	The usual treatment for this disease is bed rest and it is usually helpful and also proper nutrition and intake of fluid. If the disease affects the elderly, children or incapacitated individuals they may need confinement, particular antimicrobials, I.V. fluid which is given orally, I.M. or rectal suppository.
30426	Treatment for meningitis depends largely on the type of meningitis - bacterial, viral and fungal meningitis. In cases of bacterial meningitis, immediate medical attention is needed regardless of how mild the condition may be. This type of meningitis has a high mortality rate when untreated, so empiric antibiotics are usually administered immediately after hospital confinement. Antibiotics depend on where patients are located; UK uses cephalosporin, U.S. administers carbapenem or vancomycin, Africa uses ceftriaxone or chloramphenicol. For viral meningitis patients, hospital admission is not required. However, some cases need close observation for several days. Generally, viral meningitis is less severe compared to bacterial meningitis. However, unlike bacteria, antibiotics cannot kill viruses. Fungal meningitis rarely occurs to healthy people. It is usually present in people who have AIDS or other forms of health conditions related to the immune system, such as immune system malfunction or immunodeficiency.
30427	Antibiotics - is the choice of treatment for bacterial pneumonia. But it depends on the origin of the pneumonia, the most common microorganisms that caused pneumonia in geographical region and the status of the immune system, and the initial health of the individual. Amoxicillin - this is the widely used antibiotics in the UK to patients affected by bacterial pneumonia and sometimes taken in with clarithromycin. Clarithromycin, azithromycin, or fluoroquinolones are the widely used antibiotics in North America where the "atypical" kind of pneumonia is becoming more common. When initiating pharmacotherapy, local patterns of the antibiotic-resistance must always be considered. The range of antibiotics is determined in hospitalized patients or those that have immune deficiencies. These chosen antibiotics are commonly specified by way of intravenous line.
30428	Medications prescribed for bacterial vaginosis include Metronidazole such as Flagyl and MetroGel or Clindamycin. They can either be in tablet form or vaginal creams or gels.
30429	Most cases of bad breath can be cured through improvements in the affected individual's dental hygiene. However, in cases where bad breath is a symptom of some underlying dental or medical condition, treatment efforts must be targeted at treating those conditions first.
30431	Treatment for the condition include botox injections, surgical repositioning of the nerve fibers, and application of topical anticholinergic drugs such as scopolamine.
30432	In most cases, baker's cyst will disappear on its own and require no further treatment. However, in cases where the cyst is large and painful, a physician may drain the fluid from the knee joint using a needle with the help of ultrasound guidance. Physical therapy may also be recommended to preserve knee function. In addition, corticosteroid medications may be advised for pain relief.
30434	Treatment is usually dependent on what cause the medical condition termed as Balanitis. Thus, if the balanitis is due to infection then it may be treated with antibiotics or creams. Circumcision is also advised to treat the condition.
30436	While there is currently no known cure for permanent baldness, certain treatments are available to slow the rate of hair loss. Some of the medications used with varying success are: Minoxidil, Finasteride, Corticosteroids, and Anthralin (Dritho-Scalp). In some cases, hair may be surgically transplanted to cover the balding scalp. Alternatively, wigs and hairpieces may be worn to hide the condition.
30436	While there is currently no known cure for permanent baldness, certain treatments are available to slow the rate of hair loss. Some of the medications used with varying success are: Minoxidil, Finasteride, Corticosteroids, and Anthralin (Dritho-Scalp). In some cases, hair may be surgically transplanted to cover the balding scalp. Alternatively, wigs and hairpieces may be worn to hide the condition.
30439	In asymptomatic patients, ballooning mitral valve syndrome does not require treatment. If the patient develops symptoms, however, physicians may recommend medications to treat associated chest paint, heart rhythm abnormalities, and other complications. Some of these drugs include beta blockers, aspirins, and anticoagulants. In some cases, the disease may need to be treated surgically with a valve repair or valve replacement procedure.
30443	Barber's itch typically disappears without treatment within 2-3 days. In such cases, anti-itch creams are usually applied on the affected areas. However, if the condition persists or recurs, topical creams, antibiotics, and other medications to treat the infection may be recommended.
30446	Bone marrow transplant is the recently known treatment though BLSII is a possible candidate for gene therapy.
30450	Most patients with Barlow's syndrome live with the disorder their entire lives without requiring treatment. In cases where the disorder manifests with symptoms, medications such as preventive antibiotics and anti-blood pressure drugs may be used, particularly when mitral regurgitation is involved. Surgical intervention to correct or replace the mitral valve is very rarely needed.
30451	At present there is no known treatment for the Barmah Forest Virus itself but treatment focus more on the symptoms as they manifest.
30452	Barotitis media is considered mild and temporary. The condition usually resolves on its own with self-care. In prolonged cases, medications such as decongestant nasal sprays, oral antihistamines, or oral decongestants may be used to open up the Eustachian tube and relieve symptoms.
30453	Barotrauma is often treated with the use of a recompression chamber that reproduces the pressure than an individual has adjusted to before coming up too rapidly to a low pressure zone, thus allowing gradual decompression. Other forms of treatment for barotrauma are mostly for symptom management and supportive care.
30454	Lifestyle modifications and taking self-care steps are the initial steps in treating Barrett's esophagus. Proton pump inhibiting medications to block production of acid and irritated tissue relief. H-2-receptor blockers are often prescribed because they are less expensive than PPI medications. Esophagectomy is the surgical removal of esophagus is proven effective treatment for Barrett's esophagus but with some significant health risks. Electrocautery and laser therapy is aimed at burning away Barrett's cells.
30455	When Barrett's syndrome is confirmed, routine biopsy and endoscopy every 12 months is needed. This routine should also be complemented with proton pump inhibitor drugs to control the underlying reflux. Proton pump inhibitors have not been proven to prevent cancer of the esophagus. However, laser treatments are used in serious cases of dysplasia while "overt malignancy" need systemic chemotherapy, radiation therapy or even surgery. A new operation called "Nissen fundoplication" works by reducing the reflux of acid from the patient's stomach to his esophagus. In addition, NSAIDS (non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs) such as aspirin have shown evidence in preventing esophageal cancer in patients with Barrett's syndrome.
30457	Bartholin cyst treatment is variable, depending on the size of the cyst, the severity of its symptoms, and the presence or absence of abscess. Some common forms of treatment include: frequent sitz baths or bathing in warm water to cause the cyst to rupture on its own; surgical drainage of the cyst; antibiotics if the cyst is infected; and, in some cases, marsupialization to prevent recurrences.
30458	The treatment for Bartholin's abscess includes soaking the affected area in warm water for at least 4 times a day for several days to provide relief. This will help open the abscess and drain pus on its own although such approach will not cure the problem. This is manly because the site of the rupture is very small and closes quickly before the pus drainage is completed. Typically, a surgical cut is made since this provides the fastest recovery and greatest relief. Antibiotics is also prescribed.
30459	The treatment is based on which strain of Bartonella is discovered in a certain patient. For immuno-compromised patients they must be treated with antibiotics because they are above all susceptible to general disease and bacteremia. Drugs of particular efficiency consist of trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole, gentamicin, ciprofloxacin, and rifampin; B. henselae is generally resistant to amoxicillin, penicillin and nafcillin.
30460	Angiotensin-converting enzyme Moderate amounts of sodium Moderate amounts of potassium Potassium supplements Spironolactone - to reduce loss of potassium NSAIDs acronym for Nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs
30461	Treatment for basal cell cancer depends mostly on the location and/or severity of the malignant tumor. Some of the more common therapies include one or a combination of the following: electrodesiccation and curettage (ED and C) to remove new tumors; surgical excision to cut out the malignant tissue; cryosurgery or freezing the tumor with liquid nitrogen; Moh's surgery to target recurring carcinomas; modern laser surgery as a non-surgical option to removing the tumor; as well as a handful of topical treatments to alleviate some of the symptoms.
30464	Basal joint arthritis may be treated with self-care, medications and corticosteroid injections to reduce pain and improve movement in the affected joint. If the patient is particularly resistant to medications, surgery may be recommended to repair the affected joint.
30465	Triptans and several vasoconstrictors as a treatment to stop BTM are contraindicated. This kind of treatment usually concentrates on restoration and vasodilation of normal blood stream to the vertebrobasilar area and following return of usual function of the brainstem.
30466	Treatment for the illness includes proper diet, sufficient amounts of vitamin E via supplements, and occupational therapy.
30468	BDD treatment involves a multi-disciplinary approach involving medications and psychotherapy. Antidepressants are commonly prescribed along with cognitive behavior therapy to help patients reduce their obsession and anxiety, as well as to increase their confidence and allow them to function socially.
30469	There is no absolute cure for Beals syndrome. Management of this disorder usually involves physiotherapy early in childhood to increase mobility of the joints and to lessen the effects of low muscle bulk. The contractures have been known to improve on their own, though surgery may sometimes be required to release them. Physical therapy will be beneficial for people with Beals Syndrome as this can improve mobility of their joints. Braces are sometimes used to provide stability. Patients should also have their heart monitored on a yearly basis to check for any cardiovascular complications that may arise in some instances. There is no evidence of shortened lifespan among CCA patients. Individuals affected with this syndrome are to live normal lives unless complicated with cardiac problems or severe deformity of the vertebrae.
30470	Some tips for the treatment of Beau's lines include trimming of brittle nails after a bath or moisturize it, applying a moisturizer on nails each time you wash your hands, moisturizing cuticles and nails at bedtime and cover them with cotton gloves, avoiding removers with acetone, which dries nails and not using nail polish remover more than twice a month.
30472	Because Becker's nevus is considered a benign lesion, treatment is usually not necessary except for cosmetic purposes. Therapeutic intervention for Becker's nevus primarily is for cosmetic reasons since patients usually present with complaints related to hypertrichosis and hyperpigmentation. Trimming or shaving can be effective in removing extra or unwanted hair, while laser hair removal may offer a more permanent solution. Different types of laser treatments may also be effective in eliminating or reducing hyperpigmentation, though the results of laser treatments for both hair and pigment reduction appear to be highly variable. Another mode of treatment, Q-switched ruby laser (694 nm), has been used with variable success in the treatment of both the hypertrichosis and hyperpigmentation of Becker's nevus. A histopathologic analysis of the skin after laser treatment has shown selective damage of melanocytes located superficially but a persistence of adnexal melanocytes. The remaining pigment cells may account for the temporary improvement that was clinically noted.
30473	BWS can be managed by treatment of hypoglycemia to decrease the risks of complications in the central nervous system. Speech therapy can be done to children who have enlarged tongues, while neoplasias are treated by pediatric oncology procedures.
30474	In nearly all cases, children are able to outgrow bed-wetting on their own. If bed-wetting is not resolved by the time the child reaches the age of 7, more aggressive treatment may be recommended, such as: the use of moisture alarms to sense wetness and signal the child to urinate; certain medications to slow nighttime urine production; as well as alternative therapies like acupuncture, hypnosis, and massage.
30475	Application of topical creams, gels or lotion to relieve the itching like cortisone. An oral antibiotic is often prescribed if infection occurs. Severe allergic reaction can be treated with oral corticosteroids. Mild allergic reactions are usually cured by antihistamines.
30476	Conservative treatment includes relieving the pressure that caused bedsores by changing positions often, using special cushions and mattresses to help protect vulnerable areas from further damage. Other non-surgical treatments include cleaning the wound to prevent infection, removal of dead or infected tissues, dressings to help protect the wound, hydrotherapy, healthy diet, and muscle spasm relief. In very severe conditions, surgical intervention is necessary.
30477	Treatment can usually be managed at home by removing the left stinger and washing it with soap and water. Ice application and pain reliever can help alleviate the pain. For more severe cases, when allergic reaction is observed, doctor may prescribe antihistamine to fight the reaction and control the symptoms.
30480	Active diseases are treated with 1 dose of penicillin benzathine in 1.2 million units IM. Children less than 45kg should receive 600,000 units IM. Because these diseases are very contagious, public health measures seek out and treat infected people and their close contacts. Public health control includes finding of active cases and the treatment of family and close contacts with penicillin benzathine. The lesions are destructive and may leave obvious scars. A single injection of penicillin, however, kills the bacteria, so the skin can heal. Tetracycline and chloramphenicol are also found to be effective against the bacteria.
30481	Treatment depends on the severity of the problem. In patients with incomplete facial palsy, where the prognosis for recovery is very good, treatment may be unnecessary. However, patients with complete paralysis, marked by an inability to close the eyes and mouth on the affected side, are usually treated with anti-inflammatory corticosteroids. If infection is found to be the cause, then an antibiotic to fight bacteria or antiviral agents (to fight syndromes caused by viruses) may be used. If simple swelling is believed to be responsible for the disorder, then steroids are often prescribed to the patient. In certain circumstances, however, surgical removal of the bone around the nerve, or decompression, may be appropriate.
30482	Resection of the tumor will generally allow an extension to survival for many years. In recent reports, the 5 year survival of affected patients has been over 90% with resected tumors. These tumors will eventually undergo malignant transformation and additional radiation therapy or chemotherapy will be necessary. Astrocytomas often come back even after treatment and are usually treated similar to the initial tumor, with sometimes more thorough chemotherapy or radiation therapy. In rare cases, the tumor creates two or more cell types, and treatment may kill one cell type while allowing the other survive, becoming more aggressive and immune to future treatments.
30483	There is currently no known treatment or cure for perhaps all causes of benign congenital hypotonia. Physical, occupational, and speech therapies are often recommended, with very good results. Orthoses for the ankle and feet are sometimes used for weak ankle muscles. Hypotonic babies tend to be passive and may need extra stimulation. Sign language may benefit toddlers and children with speech difficulties greatly until speech has become intelligible by the family.
30484	In most BEB cases, the treatment of choice is botulinum toxin injections, with Botox as the most commonly used formulation. These injections relax the muscles and stop the spasms. Most individuals with BEB have substantial relief of symptoms from botulinum toxin injections. Although some patients may experience side effects like drooping eyelids, blurred or double vision, and eye dryness, these side effects are usually only transient. Other treatment options include drug therapy or surgery.
30485	Drug treatment of the tremors may include tranquilizers, beta-blockers, and antiepileptic drugs. Surgical treatments, generally reserved for the most severe cases, include botulism toxin injections into the affected muscles, pallidotomy, thalamotomy, and deep brain stimulation wherein a pacemaker is inserted into the brain. The medications that are prescribed the most for control of ET symptoms are the anticonvulsant Primidone (or Mysoline) and the beta-blocker propranolol (or Inderal). Less severe cases of ET can be treated with physical therapy and development of the muscles in the sections of the body that are affected and are severe in their shaking. Other potential sources of tremor, such as excessive caffeine consumption, medications, recreational drug use, and hyperthyroidism, should be excluded if possible.
30486	A degree of control of the fasciculations may be achieved with the same medication used to treat essential tremor, such as beta-blockers and anti-seizure drugs. The most effective approach to treatment, however, is to treat any accompanying anxiety. There have been no drugs, supplements, or other treatments found to completely control the symptoms.
30487	Treatment is done by managing the symptoms present. In some cases, lumbar surgery may be required.
30489	Alpha blockers such as Hytrin and Cardura and Enzyme inhibitors like Proscar and Avodart has the ability to make easier urination and shrink the size of the prostate gland respectively. Combination therapy of both is more effective. Non-surgical treatment including microwave therapy, transurethral needle ablation, interstitial laser therapy, and prostatic stents are aimed at reducing the size of the prostate and enlarging the urethra to facilitate easier urination. Surgery was once the most effective treatment for Benign Prostatic Hyperplasia, but the need has decline due to the latest medications and non-invasive treatments available.
30490	There is no exact treatment for benign prostatic hyperplasia as most are symptomatic addressing specific symptoms only. It may include decreasing intake of fluids especially before bedtime, lesser to moderate alcohol and caffeine intake, and religiously following the timed voiding schedules. There are also some medications given to the patients like Alpha blockers doxazosin, tamsulosin, terazosin, and alfuzosin. Other medications include 5a-reductase inhibitors. Surgery is also one option to take as treatment. Surgery involves removing some part of the prostate via the urethra. Laser therapies are also being studied for treating benign prostatic hyperplasia. There is also another similar technology which is called Photoselective Vaporization of the Prostate using the GreenLight laser. Other procedures include Holmium Laser Ablation of the Prostate.
30491	Unfortunately, there is no cure for Berdon's Syndrome, and the outlook is bleak for infants born with it. Most of them die within their first year of life. Infants can be fed intravenously with special mixtures, but this type of therapy often causes liver failure for the patient. In the last decade, doctors have attempted to replace all of the defective internal organs in infants with the syndrome by transplantation. A 1999 article in the journal Transplantation reported on 3 girls with Berdon's who received multi-organ transplantations. The transplants failed in one child, who later on died from complications. One child died 17 months later due to pneumonia, but the third child was alive and well at the time of the article.
30492	Treatment for bereavement is done by counseling and consistent moral support from family and friends.
30494	Treatment of beriberi is with thiamine hydrochloride, either in injection or tablet form. A fast and dramatic recovery within hours can be made when this is administered to patients with the disease, and their health can be transformed within an hour of administration of the treatment. Thiamine occurs naturally in unrefined cereals and fresh foods, particularly fresh meat, beans, green leafy vegetables, fruits, and dairy products. A high-protein diet, with adequate caloric intake, supplemented by B-complex vitamins for early symptoms is a good treatment for beriberi Thiamine-rich foods include pork, peas, wheat bran (cereals), oatmeal, and liver. Beriberi caused by alcoholism may require thiamine supplements or thiamine hydrochloride as part of a B-complex concentrate.
30496	There is no specific treatment for the disease. The bleeding can be managed by taking coagulation drugs such as DDAVP.
30497	People with a sensitivity to beryllium or early-stage berylliosis should be moved from tasks that involve beryllium exposure and regularly examined to determine whether the disease has progressed. Acute berylliosis is a very serious disease that occasionally may lead to death. Ventilators can help acutely affected patients breathe. Prompt corticosteroid therapy is needed to dicrease lung inflammation.
30498	Corticosteroids, most commonly prednisone, have been the standard treatment for sarcoidosis for many years. In some patients, this treatment can slow down or reverse the course of the disease, but unfortunately, other patients do not respond to steroid therapy. The use of corticosteroids in mild disease is controversial because in several cases the disease recurs spontaneously. In addition, corticosteroids have many recognized side effects related to dose and duration, though they can be reduced through the use of alternate-day dosing for those on chronic prednisone therapy.
30503	Bile duct cancer can only be definitely treated by removing the tumor surgically. If the malignant mass cannot be completely removed, the treatment focuses on symptom management and pain relief.
30504	Bile reflux may be treated with ursodeoxycholic acid, a prescription medication that regulates bile flow. Proton pump inhibitors, which primarily blocks acid production, may also help reduce bile reflux. In severe cases, surgical intervention may be recommended, including: diversion surgery, a procedure wherein a surgeon creates a new connection for bile drainage and divert bile away from the stomach; as well as fundoplication or anti-reflux surgery.
30506	Because no cure exists for primary biliary cirrhosis, treatment focuses mainly on slowing down the progress of the disease, relieving symptoms and preventing complications.
30507	In treating binge-eating disorder, the main goal is to decrease binge episodes, improve overall emotional wellbeing, and, when necessary, reduce the patient's weight. Psychotherapy, cognitive behavior therapy, interpersonal therapy, and dialectical behavior therapy are some of the approaches used to address the patient's low self worth and improve his/her perception of self. Some patients may also be given antidepressants to curb their binging compulsions.
30508	There is no specific course of treatment for Binswanger's disease. People with depression or anxiety may need antidepressant medications such as the serotonin-specific reuptake inhibitors (SSRI) sertraline or citalopram. Atypical antipsychotic drugs, such as risperidone and olanzapine, can be utilized in individuals with agitation and disruptive behavior. Recent drug trials with the drug memantine have displayed improved cognition and stabilization of global functioning and behavior. The successful management of hypertension and diabetes can also slow down the progression of atherosclerosis, and subsequently slow the progress of BD. Since there is no cure, the best treatment is preventive, early in one's adult years, by controlling risk factors such as hypertension, diabetes, and smoking.
30509	Treatments of Biotin Deficiency depends on what is causing the deficiency. For example if the deficiency is caused by eating raw eggs and by prolong antibiotic treatments, such practice must be stopped. It may also include taking supplements.
30511	Bipolar disorder cannot be cured, but instead, the emphasis of treatment is on effective management of acute episodes and prevention of episodes to further develop by use of pharmacological and psychotherapeutic techniques.
30512	Antiviral medications such as oseltamivir (Tamiflu) and zanamivir (Relenza) are the current drugs of choice for treating bird flu.
30513	Moles particularly the large ones can be removed surgically especially if they are located in interfering spots. Lasers have the capacity to remove caf-au-lait spots but then tend to return in time. Large and severe hemangiomas require steroid treatment.
30514	There was no specified treatment for the disease.
30515	Treatment includes medication to lessen the swelling and inflammation such as application of ice pack. Pain killers may also be used to reduce pain.
30516	Termination of exposure to coal dust is fundamental. Treatment is aimed at treating complications of Black Lung because there is no cure for this medical condition.
30517	Basic treatments for blackheads include over-the-counter lotions or gels applied on the blemishes or on specific areas of the skin, as well as certain oral medications like antibiotics. Common topical creams used to treat blackheads are benzoyl peroxide and a variety of creams, ointments, and pills aimed at unclogging the skin's pores.
30518	To treat bladder calculi, the stones must be removed. If the calculi are relatively small, an increased amount of water intake may help the stones pass. If the calculi are large, surgical removal may be done through a procedure called cystolitholapaxy, wherein a laser is used to break the calculi into small fragments and flush them from the bladder. If the calculi are particularly large and resistant to cystolitholapaxy, surgeons may need to remove the stones via open surgery, wherein the surgeon makes an incision in the bladder and removes the stones directly.
30519	Surgery procedures to remove cancerous cells are often recommended by physicians. Chemotherapy can kill cancer with the use of drugs either before operation or after operation to reduce the size of the cancer cells that might be left after the operation. Radiation therapy destructs cancer cells with the use of high-energy beams.
30520	Treatment for loss of bladder control depends on the type of incontinence, the severity of the condition, as well as the underlying cause. Commonly, a combination of treatments is used, including: behavioral techniques to impose lifestyle changes; pelvic floor muscle exercises or kegels; bladder training; as well as fluid and diet changes. Some medications, such as anticholinergic drugs, antidepressants, and antibiotics may also be prescribed.
30521	In general, bladder infections are treated with antibiotics to target the invading bacteria as well as treat the underlying cause. Medications may also be recommended to alleviate pain and other symptoms.
30522	There is no specific treatment than can definitely cure bladder inflammation. Treatment is mostly focused on managing symptoms. Some oral medications used are: ibuprofen and other nonsteroidal pain medications to relieve discomfort; antidepressants to help relax the bladder; and antihistamines to alleviate some of the symptoms. Other forms of treatment include: nerve stimulation, bladder distention, bladder instillation; and very rarely, surgery to correct damaged portions of the bladder.
30524	Treatment includes removal of the bladder tumors through cystoscopic or transurethral resection and fulguration or electrical destruction. It may also include the undergoing intravesicular chemotherapy and adminsitration of antineoplastic drugs.
30525	Patients with bladder stones are advised to increase their water intake to help the stones pass on their own. If the stones are large, the patient may require a procedure known as a cystoscopy, in which a small tube is inserted through the urethra to the bladder. A laser known as extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy is then used to break up the stones and allow them to pass through the bladder. Larger stones resistant to cystoscopy and laser treatment will need to be removed through open surgery.
30526	Mild asymptomatic cases of prolapsed bladder do not require any treatment. In symptomatic patients who are resistant to standard self-care measures, the following are recommended: vaginal pessary; estrogen therapy; and in rare cases, vaginal repair through surgery.
30527	In general, patients with blastocystis hominis in their stool rarely need treatment. Even if the patient does become symptomatic, the symptoms of the infection usually clear up on their own. If symptoms persist, some medications may be recommended, including: metronidazoles; the combination medication sulfamethoxazole and trimethoprim; as well as antiprotozoal medications such as iodoquinol.
30530	A doctor can heat treat, cauterize the bleeding site and surround tissue with heater probe or electrocoagulation device passed using an endoscope. Medicines are prescribed once bleeding is stopped to prevent bleeding from occurring again. Polyps are removed to lessen bleeding from colon polyps. Hemorrhoids are removed are performed to patients suffering from hemorrhoidal bleeding. Endoscopic injection or cautery to cure bleeding site located in the lower intestinal tract. Angiography is sometimes used if endoscopic techniques are not working. Surgery is only performed for severe cases.
30531	Bleeding varices are an emergency situation and medical attention is required immediately. When the bleeding isn't controlled, the patient may die. Liver transplant is the main form of treatment used to treat bleeding varices.
30532	Blepharitis can be a difficult disease to treat. Good hygiene, such as regular cleaning of the area, can control signs and symptoms and prevent complications from developing. If the patient's condition doesn't improve, a doctor may prescribe an antibiotic cream or ointment. In severe cases, eyedrops containing antibiotics and steroids may be administered. If the blepharitis is linked to an underlying cause such as dandruff or rosacea, treating those conditions may alleviate the disease.
30533	Treatment for the condition includes treating underlying medical condition when possible. Eyelid crutches may be attached to glasses and may be used as temporizing measures, but this may limit blinking and result in dry eyes. To aid in the patient's vision, eyelid surgery may be necessary. In children below the age 10, if amblyopia is induced, surgical correction should be performed as soon as possible.
30534	Some treatments for the condition include drug therapy where it has proved generally unpredictable and short-termed. Finding an effective regimen for any patient usually requires trial and error over long lengths of time. In some cases a dietary supplement of magnesium chloride has been found effective for the treatment of blepharospasm. Another treatement is the administration of Botulin toxin (Botox) to induce localized, partial paralysis. Among most patients, botox is the preferred treatment method.
30535	Treatment for blind loop syndrome commonly starts by first dealing with the underlying condition. For example, if resulting from gastric surgery, another surgery may be done to repair the postoperative blind loop. In most cases, however, the blind loop cannot be completely reversed. In such cases, treatment is focused on addressing nutritional deficiencies as well as dealing with bacterial overgrowth.
30536	Treatment for blindness is basically depending on the exact cause of the condition. For example blindness due to tumor basically requires treatment for the tumor such as surgery and other recommendable treatments.
30538	Treatment is done by taking anticoagulants to release the blood clots and unclog the blood vessels. Proper diet is also advised to help prevent blood clots from forming.
30539	The illness resolves on its own after a period of time.
30541	Bacteremia can be treated with blood transfusion and antibiotic medications.
30542	Treating high blood pressure treatment is crucial in avoiding potential serious and life-threatening complications. Regulating blood pressure requires lifestyle changes, particularly in one's diet and physical activities. Medications that may be used include: thiazide diuretics, beta blockers, angiotensin, angiotensin II receptor blockers, calcium channel blockers, rennin inhibitors, alpha blockers, alpha-beta blockers, central-acting agents, and vasodilators.
30543	Low blood pressure that occurs without accompanying symptoms does not require treatment. Therapy for symptomatic cases depends on the underlying cause. Treatment is focused on the primary health problem rather than on the blood pressure itself.
30544	There are no treatments for the underlying cause of Bloom's syndrome, and therefore medical intervention is primarily preventative. Adults with Bloom's syndrome should be more cautious and atentive than others in their surveillance for cancer. It is recommended that people afflicted by this disease maintain a close contact with a physician familiar with Bloom's. This way, with the doctor's assistance, pay attention to in case of an emergence of symptoms that may signal or show a treatable pre-cancerous condition. Bloom syndrome has no specific treatment for it; however, avoiding sun exposure and using sunscreens can help individuals avoid some of the cutaneous changes associated with photosensitivity. Efforts to minimize exposure to other known environmental mutagens are also recommended.
30549	Doctors who treat people with BDD often use a combination of medications and psychotherapy to help them overcome this disorder. Antidepressants are given to help alleviate the signs and symptoms of BDD, while cognitive behavior therapy (or talk therapy) identifies unhealthy, negative beliefs and behaviors and replaces them with healthy, positive ones. Careful attention to the patient's thoughts may be coupled with certain behavioral assignments, such as decreasing the amount of time one checks on his appearance in the mirror, or increased exposure, such as going out in public more often.
30550	Treatment of body lice is by injecting a vaccine that would make the lymph nodes immune to the parasite. Antibiotics such as tetracycline are used to treat symptoms of the disease.
30551	In most cases, body odor and sweating may be treated simply with self-care steps such as applying over-the-counter antiperspirants or deodorants. If such products are not strong enough, the following may be recommended: iontophoresis procedure; botulinum toxin (or botox) injections; anticholinergic drugs; and in rare cases, surgery to remove sweat glands.
30552	Boils may heal by themselves after an initial period of itching and mild pain. More often, they progress to pustules that become increasingly uncomfortable as pus collects. They finally burst, drain, then heal spontaneously. Boils usually drain before they will heal. This often occurs in less than 2 weeks. Boils that persist longer than 2 weeks, recuur, are located on the spine or the middle of the face, or that are accompanied by fever or other symptoms may require treatment by a health care provider because of the risk of complications from the spread of infection.
30553	The doctor may make a small incision in the tip to be able to drain a large boil, relieving pain and speeding recovery which could also help to lessen scarring. Sometimes, antibiotics may be prescribed to help heal severe or recurrent infections.
30554	Surgery is the most common treatment option for bone cancer. Chemotherapy makes use of medication to destroy rapidly spreading cancer cells, prolong life by controlling growth and spreading of cancer cells, relieve symptoms in the hope to improve quality of life. Radiotherapy is the use of high energy beams to shrink the size of cancerous tumors.
30555	In treating bone infections, antibiotics to target the infection as well as surgery are the preferred modes. Surgical procedures to treat bone infection include: draining the infected area; removing the diseased bone and tissue; restoring blood flow to the bone; or removing any foreign objects that may be causing the infection.
30556	Bone loss and osteoporosis may be treated with hormone therapy as well as certain prescription drugs such as bisphosphonates, raloxifene, calcitonin, teriparatide, and tamoxifen. Some physical therapy programs have also demonstrated some success in reducing back pain, improving posture, reducing risks of further complications, and alleviating other osteoporosis symptoms.
30557	Treatment of bone tumors is highly dependent on its type. Treatment for some bone cancers may require surgery, such as amputation of limbs and limb-sparing surgery (often combined with chemotherapy and radiation therapy). Chemotherapy and radiotherapy are more effective in tumors such as Ewing's sarcoma, but less so in others like chondrosarcoma. Limb-sparing or limb salvage surgery means that the limb is spared from amputation. Instead, the affected bone is removed through two ways: by bone graft, in which a bone from another part of the body is taken, or artificial bone is put in. In surgeries involving the upper leg, limb salvage prostheses are available. The other surgery is called van-ness rotation (or rotationplasty) which is a form of amputation, in which the patient's foot is rotated upwards in a 360 degree turn and the upturned foot is then used as a knee.
30558	There's no treatment that specifically targets bone spurs. Asymptomatic cases do not require treatment at all. When treatment is necessitated, it is mostly focused on dealing with the underlying problem as well as preventing further damage to the joints. Some medications, such as nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), may be prescribed to manage pain. In cases where bone spurs limit the patient's range of motions, surgical removal of the bone outgrowths may be recommended.
30559	Psychotherapy specifically Dialectical Behavioral Therapy uses skilled approach in teaching patients how to control emotion, tolerate torments, and improve relationships with others. Depression and anxiety are relieved by means of antipsychotic and anti-anxiety medications. Severe cases including those with self-injurious behavior often require hospitalization.
30561	Treatment includes administration of medicines that are nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory agents and by undergoing therapy that uses heat to muscle affected.
30563	Antibiotics are used for treatment of Lyme disease. Penicillin was initially demonstrated by researchers to be useful against Borrellia in the 1950s; today the antibiotics of choice are amoxicillin, doxycycline, and ceftriaxone. Macrolide antibiotics are also administered.
30564	Praziquantel and niclosamide are historical treatments that should no longer be used as first line of therapy in developed countries because they result in destruction and disintegration of the worm which may make it impossible to confirm that the scolex (or head of the worm) has been passed, which is the only way to confirm cure. Praziquantel or niclosamide should only be given out in situations when endoscopy is not available or is not possible. The preferred treatment for all tapeworm infections is injection of diatrizoic acid into the duodenum, which causes the worm to detach itself and be passed whole.
30565	The respiratory failure and paralysis that occur with severe botulism may require a patient to be on a breathing machine for long periods of time, plus intensive medical and nursing care. After several weeks, the paralysis gradually improves. If diagnosed early, foodborne and wound botulism can be treated by inducing passive immunity with a horse-derived antitoxin, which hinders the action of toxin circulating in the blood. This can prevent patients from becoming worse, but recovery still takes many weeks. Physicians may try to remove contaminated food still inside the gut by inducing vomiting or by using enemas. Wounds should be treated, typically surgically, to remove the source of the toxin-producing bacteria. Good supportive care in a hospital is the mainstay of therapy for all types of botulism.
30567	Treatment of Bovine TB depends on the kind of animal that was infected by the bacteria.
30568	Medications include anti-diarrheals to trim down diarrhea, laxative to aid in restoration of normal bowel movements, stool-softening medications to avoid stool impaction, and medications that lessen stool water content. Surgery may be necessary for severe damages to anal sphincter muscles.
30569	Treatment include surgical procedures and endoscopically placing self-expanded metal stents to temporarily relieve the person of the bowel obstruction. A change to a fiber rich diet is also advised.
30571	This kind of subcutaneous hematoma gradually heals over a certain period of time.
30572	Nerve graft involves replacing the damaged part of the brachial plexus with nerve sections cut from other parts of the body. Nerve transfer involves attaching less significant nerves still intact to the spinal cord to the detached nerve. Medications that have a pain-control effect are often beneficial part of the treatment plan.
30574	Bradycardia treatment depends on the cause and the patient's symptoms. Asymptomatic patients may be simply monitored for possible complications over time. Treatment for symptomatic patients typically involve: targeting the underlying condition; implanting a pacemaker; as well as using medications such as beta-blockers.
30575	Treatment for bradycardia-tachycardia syndrome is focused on reducing or eliminating the symptoms. In most cases, the preferred treatment is the implantation of an electronic pacemaker to regulate heartbeats. In some cases, some medications may be prescribed, including anti-arrhythmia drugs. Other treatment approaches involve AV node ablation or radiofrequency ablation of atrial fibrillation.
30576	Many adults with idiopathic adult-onset Parkinson's disease have benefited from deep-brain stimulation (DBS) applied to the internal globus pallidus or the subthalamic nucleus. Whether this procedure will be helpful for children with bradykinesia is unknown.
30577	Treatment of aneurism includes micro vascular clipping and endovascular embolization. Both of these procedures pose a certain amount of risk. Medications may also be prescribed such as anticonvulsant medications and shunt surgery.
30577	Unruptured brain aneurysm rarely needs treatment. However, in cases where the aneurysm poses serious health risks, it may be treated with invasive procedures such as microvascular clipping procedure and endovascular embolization. Meanwhile, ruptured brain aneurysms may be treated with medications such as anticonvulsants, analgesics, and calcium channel blockers. In cases where patients develop hydrocephalus, shunt surgery may be required to drain excess cerebrospinal fluid out of the brain.
30578	A brain attack is a medical emergency; therefore, affected patients must be given urgent medical treatment. Treatment usually involves: immediate injection of clot-busting drugs; carotid endarterectomy; and angioplasty. Preventive medications such as anti-platelet drugs and anticoagulants may also be recommended.
30579	Treatment can be done via surgery, but the damages brought about by the hemorrhage would take long or can never be reversible. Physical therapy is recommended to patients who want to recover from paralysis.
30581	Treatment includes surgical skull trepanning and hospitalization and administration of antibiotics to fight infections such as penicillinase-resistant antibiotic,and administration of I.V fluids containing diuretic such as urea and mannitol and an anticonvulsants like phenobarbital and phenytoin.
30582	Treatment includes administration of antimicrobial medicines for possible infections, seotonin and non-steroidal anti-inflammatory medicines.
30584	Surgery is aimed at removing as much tumor as possible to minimize damage to healthy cells. Radiation therapy is performed to destroy tumor cells present in the brain. Chemotherapy involves oral or intravenous drugs to help destroy malignant tumor cells.
30585	At present there is no known treatment for Brainerd diarrhea though treatments focus more on the symptoms as they manifest like adminitration of trimethroprim-sulfamethoxazole and doxycycline and other anti-inflammatory medicines to lessen pain and diarrhea.
30588	Treatment of BOR includes excision of branchial cleft cysts/fistulae, fitting with appropriate aural habilitation, and enrollment in appropriate educational programs for the hearing impaired. A canaloplasty can be taken into consideration to correct an atretic canal. Medical and surgical treatment for vesicoureteral reflux may be required. End-stage renal disease may need dialysis or renal transplantation. Surveillance of the syndrome includes semiannual examination for hearing impairment and annual audiometry to assess stability of hearing loss and semiannual/annual examination by a nephrologist if indicated.
30590	Treatment can be done by administering a group of certain antibiotics.
30591	Breakbone fever can be treated by antibiotics. Maintenance of clean surroundings and sanitation procedures, and treatment of water facilities must be done to avoid the mosquitoes from thriving.
30592	Lumpectomy is performed to remove only the lump and surrounding normal portions of normal tissue followed by radiation therapy to demolish remaining cancer cells. Mastectomy in different forms has long been part of breast cancer treatment plan. Chemotherapy uses drugs to destroy cancerous and cancer cells. Hormone therapy is utilized to treat women whose cancers are receptive to hormones to reduce the incidence of recurring breast cancer.
30593	Breast engorgement can be treated by draining the milk from the breasts. This can be done by applying wet heat and massage before nursing to soften the lumps so that they can be released. Breast engorgement may lead to mastitis, or inflammation of the breast as well as plugged ducts that may cause infections when the condition is not treated.
30594	Breast infections can be treated with antibiotics along with some self-care remedies such as resting and drinking extra fluids.
30595	Breast pain rarely requires specific treatment. If no carcinoma is detected, treatment may involve only basic self-care remedies such as wearing brassieres with extra support as well as taking over-the-counter drugs to manage pain. If the pain is caused by an underlying condition or other aggravating factors, further medications may be prescribed, including: topical nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, oral contraceptives, and, in chronic cases, potent drugs such as bromocriptine, danazol, and tamoxifen.
30596	Patients may be administered with medicines that decrease swelling, lower blood pressure, and decrease inflammation by suppressing the immune system. Patients may need to watch their intake of protein, sodium, and potassium. Those with severe disease should limit their sodium intake to 2 grams per day and limit fluid as well. Depending on the histology, renal function and degree of proteinuria, patients may need steroid therapy or chemotherapy regimens such as cyclophosphamide, azathioprine, mycophenolate mofetil, or cyclosporine. The medical therapy for nephritis depends on the severity of the disease. For mild cases, corticosteroids are, in general, prescribed. More severe cases require treatment with immunosuppressant agents. The two most frequently-used agents are mycophenolate mofetil and intravenous cyclophosphamide. One study compared these two drugs which showed that patients with Class III or IV disease are more likely to benefit from mycophenolate mofetil as compared to cyclophosphamide. Because of this, mycophenolate mofetil is now considered to be the first-line therapy for this disease.
30597	As of now, there is no cure for OI. Treatments are aimed at increasing the patient's overall bone strength to prevent fracture and maintain mobility. There have been many clinical trials done with the drug, Fosamax, a drug used to treat females experiencing brittleness of bones due to osteoporosis. More success was evident in the pill form versus the IV form, but success was still seen. The FDA will not approve Fosamax as a treatment for OI because the long term effects of the drug have not been studied, although it is often used in Preteens, instead of Pamidronate. Bone infections are treated as and when they appear with the appropriate antibiotics and antiseptics. Surgery can also be used to help patients with OI. Metal rods can be surgically inserted in the long bones to help improve their strength. The placement of stainless steel rods into the intramedullary canals of the long bones helped to stabilize and strengthen them. The treatment proves extremely useful in the rehabilitation and prevention of fractures. Spinal fusion can also be done to correct scoliosis, although the inherent bone fragility makes this operation more complex in OI patients. Surgery for basilar impressions can be carried out if pressure being exerted on the spinal cord and brain stem leads to neurological problems.
30598	Emergency care for a broken ankle usually involves immobilizing the ankle with a splint to restrict movement and allow the fractured parts to heal. The broken ankle may be elevated or wrapped with a compression or applied with ice packs. In serious cases characterized by multiple unstable fractures and other complications, surgical intervention may be necessary to implant internal fixation devices to fix the bones in place during healing.
30599	Treatment for a broken arm depends on the exact site of the injury as well as its severity. In simple cases, simple remedies like a sling, ice, and rest may suffice. In more complicated cases, surgery may be required to realign the broken bone as well as implant devices to help the broken bone maintain correct alignment during healing.
30600	A broken blood vessel in the eye can usually be remedied with applying a few eyedrops or artificial tears to ease the discomfort and soothe the scratchy feeling. In general, the blood appearing in the affected eye will be absorbed in 10-14 days, and no further treatment is necessary.
30601	A broken hand usually requires immediate treatment and urgent medical care. Otherwise, the fractured bones may not heal in proper alignment, which can negatively impact the patient's everyday activities. Specific treatment depends on the exact site and severity of the injury. The affected hand is usually immobilized with the use of a splint to allow the fractured pieces to realign. Ice or a cold compress may be applied to reduce pain and swelling. In complex cases, surgery may be required to implant correcting devices to help the broken bones realign during healing.
30602	A broken hip is a serious injury and almost invariably requires corrective surgery. Surgical options available for broke hip cases include: metal screw implantation; femur replacement; and total hip replacement. In cases where a patient has a serious disease that makes surgery too risky, nonsurgical alternatives such as tractions may be used.
30603	Initial treatment for a broken leg includes immobilizing the leg with a splint, walking cast, or long leg cast to allow the affected leg to heal. To manage pain and swelling, medications such as muscle relaxants, sedatives, and general anesthetic may be recommended. Surgery is almost invariable necessary to implant internal fixation devices like rods, plates, and screws to realign the bones during healing. In serious cases, an external fixation device, or a frame placed around the affected leg and attached to the broken bone with pins, may be recommended.
30604	Minor nose fractures rarely require treatment. Simple self-care remedies such as putting ice on the area and over-the-counter pain medications generally suffice. However, if the fracture has displaced bones and cartilages, a nonsurgical procedure called closed reduction may be done to manually realign the displaced fragments. Severe cases usually require surgical realignment of bones. Rhinoplasty, a surgical procedure to reshape the nose, may also be recommended.
30605	Treatment for broken ribs is mostly focused on managing pain and symptoms until the fracture fully heals. Self-care measures such as resting, applying ice to reduce pain and swelling, and taking over-the-counter pain medications are also recommended. Sometimes, compression wraps or elastic bandages are wrapped around to chest to immobilize the area. In general, fractured ribs heal in about 1-2 months.
30606	Asthma is rather managed and not treated. Avoidance of asthma-inducing substances helps a lot, as well as antihistamine medications. Inhalers and nebulizers also help widen the air passageways during an asthma attack.
30608	Doctor will prescribe a bronchodilator (oral or inhaled ) to help open up airways in the lungs.
30609	Prednisone, with its potent anti-inflammatory property, continues to be recommended as the first line of treatment for patients with symptomatic and progressive disease. Patients with asymptomatic mass lesions or nonprogressive disease can be observed and treated at a later time if required. The dosage is typically 1 mg/kg (60 mg/d) for 1 to 3 months, then 40 mg/d for 3 months, then 10 to 20 mg/d or every other day for one year. Every-other-day scheduling can be successfully utilized for this disorder. A shorter 6-month course may be enough in certain situations.
30610	A non-prescription cough medicine, plenty of rest, and lots of liquids are the elements of bronchitis treatment. Cough that brings out mucus should not be suppressed because coughing aids in removing irritants blocking the airways to the lungs. An antibiotic may be prescribed by the doctor if there are suspicions of bacterial infection.
30611	Some treatments for chronic bronchitis include antibiotics, bronchodilators, and corticosteroids. For acute worsening of chronic bronchitis, if antibiotics are used a meta-analysis found that "amoxicillin/clavulanic acid, macrolides, second-generation or third-generation cephalosporins, and quinolones" may be more effective for treatment. For acute worsening of chronic bronchitis, a clinical practice guideline by the American College of Physicians found that bronchodilators may help. For acute worsening of chronic bronchitis, a clinical practice guideline by the American College of Physicians found that corticosteroids may help.
30613	The disease can be treated by phlebotomy, or blood-letting. Intensive blood-letting schedules should be followed to release all the excess iron deposits in the blood.
30616	The death in Brugada syndrome is caused by ventricular fibrillation. The episodes of syncope (fainting) and sudden death (aborted or not) are results of fast polymorphic ventricular tachycardias or ventricular fibrillation. These arrhythmias show up with no warning. While there is no exact treatment modality that reliably and wholly prevents ventricular fibrillation from occurring in this syndrome, treatment lies in termination of this lethal arrhythmia before it causes death. This is done via implantation of an implantable cardioverter-defibrillator (ICD), which then continuously monitors the heart rhythm and will defibrillate an individual if ventricular fibrillation is seen.
30618	For severe cases of Bruxism, stress management and behavior therapy through professional counseling and relaxation techniques to minimize clenching the teeth when tensed or furious. Dental approaches like using mouth guard to prevent further damage to the teeth.
30620	A few of the patients can be treated medically with sodium restriction, diuretics to control ascites, anticoagulants such as heparin and warfarin, and general symptomatic management. Most of the patients require further intervention. Milder forms of Budd-Chiari may be treated with surgical shunts to help divert blood flow around the obstruction or the liver itself. Shunts must be placed early on after diagnosis for best results. The transjugular intrahepatic portosystemic shunt (TIPS) is same as a surgical shunt. It accomplishes the same goal but has a lower procedure-related mortality, which has resulted to a growth in its popularity. Patients with stenosis or vena caval obstruction can benefit from angioplasty. Limited studies on thrombolysis with direct infusion of urokinase and tissue plasminogen activator (tPA) into the obstructed vein have been proven to show moderate success in treating Budd-Chiari syndrome; however, it is not routinely attempted.
30621	Symptoms are treated as there is no direct treatment for the disease. Cessation of tobacco use may slow down any further progression of the disease. Vascular surgery can sometimes be helpful in treating limbs with poor perfusion that are secondary to this disease. Usage of vascular growth factor and stem cell injections have been showing promise in clinical studies. Streptokinase has been suggested as adjuvant therapy in some cases.
30622	The most effective way to treat bulging disks is by cortisone injections. Cold and hot compress applications may be used to lessen the pain.
30623	Several residential treatment centers offer long term support, counseling, and symptom interruption for the treatment of bulimia. The most common form of treatment involves therapy, often group psychotherapy or cognitive behavioral therapy. Anorexics and bulimics generally go through the same types of treatment and are members of these same treatment groups. This is because anorexia and bulimia often go hand in hand, and often patients have at some point undergone both. These forms of therapy target both the underlying issues which cause the patient to engage in these behaviors, and the food symptoms.
30624	The treatment of this medical condition is primarily focused on the prevention and relief of the skin infections. Antibiotics such as minocycline antibiotics have been proven to be quite useful for moderate cases. Oral steroids can also be prescribed for patients suffering from severe cases.
30625	There is no direct treatment for bundle branch block. However, treatment is necessary to deal with any underlying health conditions that caused the blockage in the first place, such as a coronary heart disease. Most medications associated with bundle branch block are drugs used to manage blood pressure or reduce the complications of heart failure. In some cases, an artificial pacemaker may need to be implanted.
30626	Initially, treatment includes self-care steps such as changing the one's shoes, padding the bump, as well as wearing shoe inserts to prevent further aggravation. Medications such as nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs may be prescribed for pain relief. However, surgery may be necessary if the bunion is particularly severe or resistant to conservative steps. A surgical procedure known as bunionectomy may be done to remove the swollen tissue from around the big toe joint, straighten the big toe by removing part of the bone, or permanently joining the bones of affected joints.
30627	Treatment includes administration of medicine for fever and antibiotic and antimicrobial therapy for any infections.
30628	The treatment of this condition largely varies and may depend on the underlying causes found. Increase in the intake of fluid is usually advised as well as the administration of some oral anti-fungal medications.
30629	Often, pain from bursitis goes away in a few weeks following proper treatment. Treatment for bursitis commonly involves: immobilizing the affected area; applying ice to reduce swelling; and taking nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) to reduce the inflammation and manage pain. If the bursitis is caused by an infection, antibiotics may be required. In rare cases, the bursa may need to be surgically drained.
30630	For acute bursitis, treatment is done by injecting anti-inflammatory agents or hydrocortisone on the parts where the illness has developed. Chronic bursitis meanwhile requires surgical removal of the affected bursas.
30631	Bursitis of the knee can be treated with a combination of self-care remedies and doctor-administered methods to manage pain and reduce the inflammation. If the patient is resistant to self-care measures and the symptoms are particularly severe, the following interventions may be necessitated: corticosteroid injection; aspiration; antibiotics; physical therapy; and in rare occasions, a surgical procedure known as bursectomy, or surgical removal of a bursa.
30632	Calcific bursitis can be treated by anti-inflammatory drugs such as hydrocortisone. Meanwhile, severe cases may require removal of calcified bursas through surgery.
30633	Patients displayting early stage condition of brown lungs usually undergo therapy to reverse the narrowing of the airway. Antihistamines are commonly prescribed to effectively reduce the tightness of the chest. People displaying the symptoms of brown lungs should immediately leave the contaminated area to prevent possible aggravation.
30634	This medical condition does not currently have any treatments available. Due to the mental retardation of patients, proper care and support should be constantly provided by immediate family members.
30635	To treat a Clostridium difficile infection, it may be necessary to stop the antibiotic or medication that triggered the infection. For most patients, this step may be sufficient to relieve symptoms. However, in some cases, further steps are necessary, including: antibiotics such as oral metronidazole or vancomycin; probiotics; and surgery for those with severe pain.
30636	There is no known treatment for CADASIL; however once diagnosed through a magnetic resonance imaging or MRI, doctors may prescribe anti-coagulants that help slow down the condition and for stroke prevention. Patients can also be given therapy to decrease their propensity to strokes and heart attacks.
30637	In essence, CAL spots does not require any treatment as it is simply a form of birthmark. However, patients may require some emotional support that should be provided by the family as well as genetic counseling to gain better understanding of this skin disorder. lthough caf-au-lait spots require no treatment, you'll need to provide emotional support for the patient and his family. Also, refer them for genetic counseling. Prepare the patient for diagnostic tests, such as tissue biopsy and radiographic studies.`
30638	Treatment includes administration of drugs and hormones and undergoing an oral low dose of anti coagulant therapy used to reverse the effect of calcification. Colchicine and surgical excision of the large mass caused by the build up may also be used to treat the condition.
30639	Treatment includes administration of drugs and hormones and undergoing an oral low dose of anti coagulant therapy used to reverse the effect of calcification. Colchicine and surgical excision of the large mass caused by the build up may also be used to treat the condition.
30642	Treatments also vary but generally, modification of predisposing factors can sometimes slow or reverse stone formation. Medications and surgery are needed in some cases. Antibiotics and surgery may be required from infections while medications may be used to manage pain.
30643	For those at risk for cataract, surgery may treat the condition. The procedure is the removal of the clouded lens in the eyes and replaces it with a clear, plastic lens. Surgeries such as this are very effective in restoring vision and are one of the most common procedures performed in the United States.
30644	In most cases, the infection can be self-limiting. Treatment can be symptomatic, usually reposition of liquid and electrolyte replacement. Said interventions are generally enough for human infections. Using antibiotics meanwhile is contentious. Loperamide, which is an antimotility agent, can lead to intestinal perforation in any invasive diarrhea and prolonged illness. It is therefore advised to avoid taking such medication. For children, erythromycin can used though some studies show that it can eliminate the Campylobacter organism from the stool rather rapidly without affecting the duration of the illness. Kids with dysentery caused by C. jejuni however can benefit from early treatment using erythromycin. Among animals, enrofloxacin and sarafloxacin were used to treat poulty infections in single instances. It was found out that the treatment only promoted the development of fluoroquinolone-resistant populations instead of eliminating the bacteria leading the FDA to ban the practice.
30645	Most individuals often get well without the need for treatment; however, antibiotic treatment is often prescribed to treat severe and prolonged cases of campylobacteriosis. Drinking clean and uncontaminated water, juices, and soups are necessary to prevent dehydration which is common to happen when people have diarrhea.
30647	Since Canavan disease causes progressive brain atrophy, there is no identified cure or standard course of treatment. Treatment therefore is symptomatic and supportive. This is why death among children usually occurs before the age of four. Newer treatments however have helped some children survive into their teens and twenties. Current studies are ongoing since the gene for the disease has been located. The Myelin Project and The Stennis Foundation are among the recognized endeavors seeking more support for studies related to the disease. The Myelin Project was founded by the Augusto and the late Michaela Odone, whose son Lorenzo suffers from X-linked adrenoleukodystrophy. The couple's struggle was dramatized in the movie Lorenzo's Oil. Their son has survived the disease is now 29 years old.
30648	There are several ways of treating cancer such as chemotherapy, surgery, radiation therapy, immunotherapy, monoclonal antibody therapy and other methods. Several experimental cancer treatments are also under works.
30650	Clinical settings utilize antimycotics to treat candidiasis. Precaution must be considered when treating the infection because using antibiotics can lead to getting rid of the yeasts natural competitors for resources. A one-time dose of fluconazole has been reported to 90% effective in treating this type of infection. This is just for vaginal yeast infection however, other types may require different treatments.
30651	There is no particular treatment specified to cure canine distemper. However, dogs with canine distemper should be given medical attention by a veterinarian who will usually administer antibiotics as well as intravenous fluids along with so0me nutritional supplements. There are existing vaccines for canine distempers which are mandatory for pets. Infected animals are quarantined and routine cleaning of its living quarters using disinfectants and detergents is advised.
30652	Mouth rinses and topical pastes such as fluocinonide and Orabase aid in the treatment of canker sores. Oral medications like Tagamet can also bring out favorable results. Zinc lozenges and high doses of Vitamin C and B complex are alternative treatments for the condition.
30653	The treatment for capillaritis may be through oral therapy with bioflavonoid and ascorbic acid and mid-potency topical steroids (in case of itching).
30656	To treat carbon monoxide treatment, the carbon monoxide must first be replaced in the patient's blood with oxygen. This is done by breathing pure oxygen through a mask or ventilator. In some cases, hyperbaric oxygen therapy, in which the body is placed in a full-body pressurized chamber, may be required.
30658	Carcinoid tumor treatment depends on whether it has metastasized to other parts of the body. If the tumor has not spread, it can be surgically removed and no further treatment is required. If the cancer has progressed to widespread proportions, other treatment options include: slowing the tumor's growth through regular injections of the octreotide (Sandostatin); stopping blood supply to the tumor; killing cancer cells with heat through radiofrequency ablation; and chemotherapy.
30660	Diuretics - can be prescribed to get rod off extra fluid. Digoxin - can be used carefully to enhance control of the heart in patients that has atrial fibrillation. Daily weight measurement - to monitor weight of patient. A gain weight of 3 or 4 pounds within 1 or 2 days may signify extreme fluid buildup. Chemotherapy or prednisone Pacemaker - this might be included id it involves the conduction system. Heart Transplant - may be needed for patients with severe conditions though it is not recommended for those that have AL type amyloidosis because their disease consists of several organs. Liver Transplant - required for secondary amyloidosis.
30662	This disorder responds effectively with calcium channel blockers, nitrates and beta blockers.
30663	Initial treatment will usually be administered to be supportive in nature, such as the monitoring and administration of oxygen. Hospital management involves the insertion of needle into the skin and into the patient's pericardium and aspirate fluid.
30664	The CFC syndrome has no existing cure and treatment available. Therapies available today are purely symptomatic for symptoms of the syndrome that affects the individual. Skin care help, special education and speech therapy are among the most common treatments available. For patients suffering from tube feeding and heart defects, surgical intervention is the available option.
30665	Depending on the type of cardiomyopathy, certain drugs may be prescribed to decrease the heart's workload, regulate the heartbeat, help prevent blood clot formation, and aid in the prevention fluid accumulation in the body. These drugs include vasodilators, ACE (angiotensin converting enzyme) inhibitors, digitalis (digoxin), anticoagulants ("blood thinners") and diuretics ("water pills").
30666	Make it a habit to consult professional help before undergoing treatment or taking in medications. Symptomatic support Muscle relaxants Botox injection Dilation
30667	In the treatment for CNC, medical care is mostly restricted to the over activity of the endocrine gland. There is no existing medical treatment for myxomas recorded. For patients with cardiac tumors, a surgical excision is immediately required as well as the removal of symptomatic myxomas found on the skin. In cases where patients have several tumors spread all over the body, chemotherapy and adjuvant radiation therapy can be administered when deemed necessary.
30668	The deficiency is usually treated by L-carnitine supplementation after its severity is assessed. Carnitine and avoiding fasting alleviates hypoglycemia occurrences and resolves cardiomegaly in several months' therapy. In a number of cases, high-carbohydrate, low-fat diet has been applied; however, it should not be done alone.
30669	In a number of cases, diets that are low in long-chain fats, high-carbohydrate with supplement of MCT, as well as frequent feeding are found to be helpful. Supplementation of Carnitine has also been used, however its efficacy remains unknown. Aggressive treatments of hyperammonemia, hypoglycemia, and lipolysis prevention in newborns can be lifesaving.
30670	Therapy will depend on clinical manifestations, as well as the biliary abnormality location. It is very important to treat the disease with antibiotics that have broad-spectrum agents. Preventing complications is advisable but there has been no proven method that's effective. Other treatments include procedures such as ERCP, PTC, sphincterotomy, lobectomy, and internal surgical bypass.
30671	Common treatments for Carotenemia include avoiding or reducing foods that contain beta-carotene, like fish oils, carrot, pumpkin, sweet potato, vitamin A, etc. Watchful waiting is important, as the condition typically subsides after the elimination of carotenemia-causing foods. Always ask for medical advice from professional healthcare providers about any type of treatment for carotenemia, or even when changing treatment plans.
30672	Treatment will depend on severity of the symptoms. Medicine can be needed in controlling high-blood pressure. Drugs for blood thinning may also be required for several months. Surgery can also be done to repair the dissection, and other therapies might be needed if there's an underlying disorder/s in blood vessels.
30673	The syndrome's treatment depends on the condition's severity. There are nonsurgical and surgical treatment options for the syndrome. Fortunately, most patients given proper treatment restore the normal use of their hands and wrists.
30674	Treatment of the syndrome will depend on a patient's symptoms. Surgery can be required if there is a presence of critical heart defect. Surgery can also be used in correcting craniosynostosis, through separation of the abnormal fused skull in order to allow head growth. This kind of treatment is typically done in different stages that start in infancy. Occupational, speech, and physical therapy also help individuals with the syndrome to reach their highest developmental potential.
30675	Treatment will mainly depend on the disease type a patient has. The unicentric type is almost always treated with surgery, while the multicentric type requires more methodical therapies.
30676	The focus of treatments is on the symptoms the patient has. A number of children may require surgery in repairing birth defects in the heart or anus. Life expectancy isn't drastically reduced for individuals that don't have critical physical problems.
30677	In the majority of people, the infection clears up even without treatment. Although, antibiotics can be required if the swollen lymph notes remains swollen and painful for longer than two to three months. Antibiotics can also help if there's long fever or bone, liver, or other organ infection. Doctors can also drain big and painful lymph nodes.
30678	There is no specific cure for catatonic schizophrenia. However, certain medications may be prescribed along with coordinated mental health care to help manage symptoms in patients. Treatments of choice include sedatives, antipsychotic medications, and electroconvulsive therapy combined with psychotherapy and social or vocational training.
30679	While researchers are currently developing genetic transplantation techniques, this disease has no existing genetic treatment yet. Treatment is mainly symptomatic, antibiotics are used to treat infections, and patients can undertake cardiac surgery for heart abnormalities.
30680	Treatment will vary depending on a patient's symptoms. Nasopharyngeal cannulation is often done for infants until their jaw grows enough for the tongue to assume a more usual placement in the airwy and mouth. Cleft palate can usually be repaired by a maxillofacial or plastic surgeon. Other treatments may include a language and speech therapy, and physchologist.
30681	Caudal regression syndrome necessitates surgical intervention for vertebral anomalies and decompression, particularly if the syndrome is accompanied by neurological deficits.
30682	Remarkable improvement is likely if treatment starts within some months of the first symptoms. Treatment alternatives include medications, application of cold and heat to swelling, capsaicin, physical therapy, TENS, sympathetic nerve-blocking medicine, spinal cord stimulation, and biofeedback.
30683	While the superficial lesions are often untreated and allowed to go away on its own, laser can be used in eradicating small vessels in some cases. Those that involve the eyelids obstructing the vision are usually treated with laser treatments or steroid injections that quickly reduces lesion size.
30684	The infection is dangerous and needs immediate treatment. Treatment usually includes high-dose intravenous antibiotics, and sometimes surgery to drain its infection.
30686	The CDG syndrome will require patients to undergo changes in their lifestyle, such as using a wheel chair. Families who live with a patient will need large cars for proper transportation of the wheelchairs. The disease will also affect the child's options for recreation, although handicap activities such as swimming is a good way to get exercise and enjoy at the same time. Those who have the most severe cases might also need hearing aids.
30687	Celiac disease itself has no specific cure; however the disorder can be managed through dietary changes and avoidance of gluten. Once gluten is effectively removed from the diet, the inflammation in the small intestine will diminish within a few weeks. If nutritional deficiencies are severe, vitamin and mineral supplements may be recommended. Most patients who follow a gluten-free period will be completely cured of celiac disease.
30689	There are a wide variety of cellulite treatments to date, ranging from massages to topical creams, but these methods have little documented success. Losing weight through regular physical exercise and a healthy diet is probably the only proven beneficial cellulite treatment. Although weight loss cannot completely eliminate cellulite, it can make them less noticeable. Recently, modern techniques such as laser therapy and radiofrequency systems are gaining ground as effective therapies for cellulite.
30690	Treatment options may include therapies and/or surgical procedures to correct the malformation.
30692	Desmopressin or vasopressin can be taken a few times daily. The condition can sometimes be controlled through medicines that stimulate vasopressin hormone production, but these medications are not likely to alleviate symptoms totally for people with severe condition.
30693	There is no exact treatment for the condition; it can only be avoided by controlling hyponatremia correction. The correction should not go higher than 1mEq/L per hour.
30694	Unfortunately, there is no known treatment for central serous chorioretinopathy. However, if left untouched for 4-8 weeks, the disease can disappear and the eye will regain visual normalcy. But the disease recurs with one-third to a half of the patients, while about 10% have recurrences of 3 or more times. The relapse time can occur anywhere between a year to up to 10 years later. Some patients can opt for laser photocoagulation, although the process may sometimes result in a blind spot when the central macula is too close to the leak.
30695	General therapy for central sleep apnea mostly focuses on treating underlying conditions. Some techniques used are: reduction of opioid medications that may possibly cause sleep apnea; supplemental oxygen; medications to stimulate breathing; continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP); bilevel positive airway pressure (bilevel PAP); as well as adaptive servo-ventilation.
30697	Although there is no known treatment for ceramidase deficiency, patients may be prescribed corticosteroids to lessen any pain. Bone marrow transplants may be done to remove nodes. Unfortunately, the disease may prove fatal to infants, who can die by 2 years old. Those who are born with a milder form of the disease may last until their teenage years.
30698	Medications such as Tegretol and dilantin can help reduce the pain in the hands and feet, while Lipisorb is used to treat the gastrointestinal hyperactivity. Enzyme replacement is also a popular method of treatment for those who have ceramide trihexosidosis.
30699	Ceraunophobia is treatable through the same forms used to treat other types of phobias. This usually involves behavior therapy, and makes use of procedures such as exposure treatment, counter-conditioning and systematic desensitization. Most of the time, treatment will involve the patient encountering their phobia in controlled situations, until their body and mind learns to adjust until the fear is reduced and eventually disappears.
30700	Cercarial dermatitis often resolves on its own after a few days, although some rashes may persist for at least a week. In the meantime, the characteristic itching can be managed with over-the-counter anti-itch creams or antihistamines. If itching is too severe, physicians may recommend prescription medication.
30701	Although there is no treatment to cure a patient with cerebellar hypoplasia, the treatment given is supportive in nature and can help make living with the condition easier for the patient and family.
30702	There is no treatment available for the illness.
30703	These abscesses can be treated by means of surgery. Special medications are also given to treat the infection.
30705	Treatment varies according to the grade of the aneurism, and whether it has burst or not. Other factors to be considered are the patient's health, age, family and personal medical history, the aneurism type and size. Surgical options are available in treating cerebral aneurisms: microvascular clipping, endovascular embolization, and occlusion.
30706	Treatment is available for the headaches and seizures caused by cerebral cavernous malformations. However, for cases wherein recent hemorrhage has occurred or whose angiomas are changing in size or causing seizures, surgery is the most effective and preferred form of treatment. A procedure called craniotomy, or opening of the skull, is performed during surgery to remove the cerebral cavernous malformation. Most of the time, patients are given general anesthesia, although some cases would need brain mapping, and this requires the patient to be awake. Technology has made surgery for the condition much easier and safer, with the invention of microsurgery and frameless stererotaxy, which operate with a minimal brain or spinal cord disruption as possible.
30707	Once diagnosed, treatment can be done by surgery.
30709	Treatment for cerebral hypoxia will depend on the severity of the situation. The main goal is to be able to provide oxygen to the brain. Mild cases will do with inhaled oxygen, but more severe cases will require life support. If the patient is already experiencing seizures as a result of the cerebral hypoxia, medications such as phenytoin, Phenobarbital, general anesthetics, and valporic acid can suppress it. In cases where the patient has already entered a coma, wherein breathing reflexes will need additional support, mechanical ventilation is required. Extreme cases that also cause the heart to stop pumping will require epinephrine, defibrillation, CPR, and atropine may be used to resume the pumping of the heart.
30710	No treatment is available for cerebral palsy, but there are therapy options that can help patients with cerebral palsy function as best as he can. Early diagnosis is necessary in providing adequate therapy for those with the condition, so that they can learn and adapt to developmental difficulties at a faster pace. Treatment is usually composed of various types of therapy: physical, occupational, and speech; medications for seizures, pain, and muscle spasms, surgery for any anatomical deficiencies or correcting muscles, communication aids, and walking devices.
30711	Depending on the cause or severity of the attacks, treatments my range from different medications and angioplasty or surgery.
30713	There is no standard treatment for the disease. Only the symptoms can be managed, but complications such as pneumonia can lead to eventual death.
30714	Treatment for the disease includes the use of a molecule named chenodeoxycholic acid, which inhibits abnormal bile acid synthesis causing the progress of the disease to slow down.
30715	There is no known treatment that can abolish the disease. However, patients can receive medications to control occurrences of seizures as well as speech, physical, and occupational therapy.
30716	Cerumen impaction is usually treated through irrigation, which entails rinsing the ear canal with water from a commercial irrigator or a syringe attached to a catheter. Small amounts of hydrogen peroxide, alcohol, or antiseptic may be added to the water solution. Following irrigation, antibiotic eardrops are commonly prescribed to avoid infections.
30718	Cervical dystonia may be treated with a combination of oral medications, toxin injections, and surgery. Medications typically involve drugs that reduce acetylcholine levels, regulate GABA neurotransmitters, as well as increase or decrease dopamine levels in the body. In some cases, anticonvulsants may also be prescribed. Botulinum toxin injections may also be done to stop muscle spasms. Surgery is often the last option for treatment, and may include selective denervation surgery and deep brain stimulation.
30719	Treatment is for pain relief and prevention of permanent injury. Treatment of mild cases are through wearing of a neck brace, taking of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, or doing exercise prescribed by a physical therapist. Patients with a serious condition may undergo non-surgical or surgical treatment. Non-surgery may be through hospitalization or, intake or injection of medications. Surgery is based on the patient's condition. During surgery, doctors may remove a patient's herniated disk or bone spurs; remove or rearrange bone from the back of your neck or; cut or remove vertebrae to make more room for the spinal cord. Surgery however, does not totally eliminate the patient's problems.
30720	Cervicitis is treated by addressing its cause most of which are cleared by antibiotics. Cervictis that is not caused by an STD may not need treated. However, if it is caused by an STD, an antiviral medication is prescribed. Cervicitis may be prevented through safe sex and undergoing a Pap screening scheduled by the doctor.
30722	Once the diagnosis is confirmed, treatment can be given to those who are in the acute stages of disease. Typical medications include nitroderivatives; however, these substances are toxic and can produce many harmful side effects. They cannot be taken without medical supervision, and a resistance to the medicines has been reported in many cases. For those who have reached the chronic stage of the Chagas disease, treatment becomes more drastic such as surgery and the use of heart pacemakers.
30723	A chalazion is easily treated by applying a warm compress on the affected eyelid for 10 to 20 minutes at 4 times a day. The heat brought by the compress may soften the oils and eventually clear they way for the oils to pass through. When the warm compress fails to do the job, you may apply a topical ointment or antibiotic eye drops. However, when chalazions continue to grow after a few months, the lesions may then be injected with corticosteroid or even surgically removed. If the lump is located directly under the eyelid, it is recommended to excise the chalazion from above to avoid other damages that may involve the rest of the eyelid. The excision takes only about 15 minutes and heals in a matter of days. Sometimes bruises are formed in the area where the excision took place as well as continuous swelling, but they will be gone when the excision is totally healed. It is normal for a person to experience chalazia every now and then, as the cysts reoccur after two years or whenever the oils harden up again.
30724	Chancroid can easily be treated by the use of antibiotics. Upon taking proper medication, the sores and ruptures are likely to heal completely after two weeks. However, you must take extra care to avoid acquiring chancroid once again, as it may come back even after a patient is cured. Thus, try using condoms, practice regular hygiene and limit the number of sex partners in order to keep you safe from chancroid. Doctors prescribe an oral dose of Azythromicin or Ceftriaxone or Erythromycin to treat the disease in 7 days. When left unattended, chancroid bacteria may dwell in the lymph glands and infect the groin, causing it to grow larger, harder and much painful. Once you notice signs of what might be chancroid, take a trip to the nearest STD clinic and have yourself examined. This way you would be given proper medication and be cured as soon as possible.
30725	This eye disorder can be treated through laser surgery. When the condition is already worse, corneal transplant may be required. It is therefore a must to treat CS once diagnosed, as it can eventually destroy not only the cornea but as well as the iris and result to displaced pupils.
30726	Chronic Atrial Tachycardia is often a secondary phenomenon that indicates a more complicated heart problem such as COPD. This is treated with a daily dose of 240-480 mg verapamil, to keep the heartbeat at a normal rate. Other heart rate controlling medications can also be prescribed by the doctor, including calcium channel blockers or beta-blockers. The heart needs sufficient amount of oxygen in order to pump properly, thus persons with Chronic Atrial Tachycardia should improve their oxygenation and administer intravenous magnesium. Medications should also be done by a doctor because the drugs and processes used for treating the disorder may create contribute to other complications that can put the patient's life at risk.
30727	Topical antifungals such as nystatin, econazole and clotrimazole are the usual treatment for lesions at the corners of the mouth (angular cheilitis). The best treatment for lip-licking cheilitis is to avoid licking the lips. The treatment for drug-induced cheilitis is by avoiding the drug causing the condition, and if this is not possible, by frequent application of petrolatum or Vaseline. Possible therapies include treatment with topical chemotherapy such as fluorouracil, freezing with liquid nitrogen, or treatment with a topical drug that affects the immune system (immunomodulator) called imiquimod, if lesions at the inner border of the lower lip (actinic cheilitis) is present.
30728	There is no specific cure for Charcot's disease at present, but the drug Riluzole is believed to be capable of reducing damages to the motor neurons by lowering the body's production of glutamate. The drug however is not able to heal the damages brought about by the disease but it has greatly contributed to prolonging the life of patients with the disease. Aside from Riluzole, doctors prescribe other medications to ease the pain felt by the patient, as well as proper diets that are easily swallowed. Since Charcot's disease affects the person's cognitive abilities, this eventually progresses into an emotional burden for the patient given that he can no longer do simple asks on his own. Thus it is a must to provide moral support to the patient to keep him from getting depressed, and this requires the presence of family members and friends, as well as consistent counseling and participating in worthwhile activities suited to the patient's condition.
30729	At present there is no standard treatment for the Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease, but ascorbic acid has been suggested to help cure the disorder. There has been a clinical trial of using ascorbic acid on CMT patients, and high doses of Vitamin C have been used on the said patients, but not all of them are expected to respond positively to the treatment.
30730	Children born with the CHARGE syndrome are at risk to various life-threatening diseases, but once the diseases is detected, these children can survive and grow to be healthy individuals through the help of advanced medical care. Therapies are recommended in order for them to cope from their defects as well as educational intervention. Physical and occupational therapy must be done during the child's early years so as to develop their intelligence despite deafness and blindness. Therapies improve the patient's mobility and static postures, and as well teach them self care skills. Most of all, children with CHARGE would be able to cope faster through consistent moral and emotional support from their parents, doctors and therapists.
30731	At present there is still no specific cure or treatment for the Chediak-Higashi syndrome, but bone marrow transplants are recommended to patients especially when the disease has just started to develop. Medications such as antibiotics are prescribed to cure infections, and drugs like acyclovir and other chemotherapy drugs are used when the disease has already matured. Some patients meanwhile need to undergo surgery in order to drain abscesses in the brain.
30732	Three common treatments are used for chemodoctoma, namely radiation therapy, embolization, and surgery. Radiation therapy is performed on patients who cannot undergo surgery or embolization. The use of gamma-knife irridation is used to treat the tumor and prevent it from growing. However, this treatment is very expensive and can only control the tumor's development and not totally kill it. Embolization meanwhile is an effective technique which starves the tumor of blood supply thus preventing it from growing causing it to die. It often serves as a precursor to surgery. Surgery proves to be the most successful treatment for chemodoctoma, as the procedure excises the tumor and its roots. This treatment has low death rates and is the preferred method of treatment by most patients.
30735	The treatment for lesions may be by surgically cutting away the area (excision), or through laser or freezing the area (cryosurgery), or burning away the area (electrocautery). Unless they bleed or are bothering one, cherry hemangiomas do not need to be treated. They may be treated with laser treatment or electrocauterization, or through liquid nitrogen therapy. Liquid nitrogen is a cold, liquefied gas that is sprayed on the skin with a spray gun which works by destroying and freezing the tumor of blood vessels.
30736	The said disorder is treated by a series of surgeries, orthopedic and ophthalmologic treatments for children between 5 and 15 years of age. A craniofacial team will perform crettage procedures in order to remove the cyst-like growths and reconstruct the jaw bones. Orthopedic treatments meanwhile maintain the bone's structure until such time that the disorder ceases and stops to grow, and ophthalmologic treatments take care of the child's vision as this is also affected by the disorder. For patients above 15 are monitored by long-term clinical visits and other medical evaluations to keep track of their bone development, as cherubism is still under research. Genetic counseling is as well recommended to detect other relatives and potential occurrences of cherubism on future generations.
30737	Chest pain due to heart problems may be treated with medications appropriate to the cause. If it is really a heart attack, the patient may be treated with clot-busting medication or undergo a surgical procedure. Chest pain due to non-cardiac causes is also treated depending on the problem. Patients may be evaluated and treated in an outpatient setting if doctors determine there is not immediate danger.
30738	Chest wall pain usually subsides on its own. However, to ease the pain, doctors may prescribe medications such as nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, antidepressants, or muscle relaxants. Patients should also rest, exercise, or applying a heating pad to the affected area several times a day.
30739	The condition is treated depending on the severity and symptoms of the condition. If there are no symptoms, the doctor may only regularly examine the patient's condition. For primary symptoms such as headaches, pain medications may be prescribed. Patients with symptomatic Chiari malformation undergo surgery to relieve pressure on the cerebellum and the spinal cord as well as to restore the normal flow of spinal fluid.
30740	Since chickenpox is highly contagious, persons affected by the disease are normally isolated and are not allowed to make outdoor social interactions during while the virus exists. This usually takes two to three weeks. Nowadays however, chickenpox can now be treated as well as prevented by the use of the varicella vaccine. While the disease is ongoing, drugs such as paracetamol is given to the patient in order to reduce his fever, while baths are mixed with sodium bicarbonate or antihistamine to reduce the itchiness. Aspirin meanwhile is not recommended to be taken as a medication because it can cause complications leading to Reye's Syndrome, which can be fatal. The vaccine however is not available in all countries. In the United Kingdom, using the varicella vaccine is not practiced due to the lack of evidence supporting its lasting benefits. Chickenpox however contributes to serious congenital defects on babies, since pregnant women are not proven to be immune from the virus. These defects may be in form of skin disorders, vision problems and brain damages.
30741	There is no exact cure for Chikungunya, as well as no vaccine available. Doctors are currently studying more on the effects of the drug Chloroquine as a potential cure for the symptoms linked with the disease. Studies have shown that aspirin does not relieve the arthitic pains experienced by the patients, but chloroquine phosphate has shown good results. Those infected with the disease should stay away from mosquitoes, and should best remain under a mosquito net during the onset of the illness. Mild exercise on the infected joints is also recommended, but do not overdo the workout as it can cause further bone complications. In some countries affected by the disease, patients concoct honey and lime in order to relieve themselves of the pain brought by Chikungunya, while others consume low dosages of tumeric.
30742	The condition can be improved by engaging in activities and exercises that would make the heart and lungs stronger, such as swimming. Breathing exercises are also helpful.
30743	There is specific cure for CDD, and the loss of language abilities and other social skills are somewhat serious. Eventually affected children would carry these disabilities permanently and would need constant care. Behavior therapy- this therapy enables the child to learn the skills he lost once more by using a system of rewards to reestablish desirable behaviors and remove the problematic ones. The programs under behavior therapy are conducted by a team of speech therapists, physical therapists and psychologists. Parents, caregivers and teachers are required to give support as well. Medications- antipsychotic medication are given to treat problematic behavior such as aggressive stance. Anticonvulsants meanwhile control seizures.
30744	Childhood leukemia can bet treated by extensive chemotherapy, radiotherapy or multi-drug therapy. A bone marrow transplant may also be required to replace lost red blood cells.
30745	Treatment for childhood nephrotic syndrome are focused towards trying to stop the rapid loss of protein while also increasing urine amount. Drug medications are given like prednisone. But the drug may have side effects like being hungry anytime, gaining weight, acne or pimples, mood changes abruptly, being overactive, more chance of infection, and slow growth rate. Other medications may also include diuretics or what they call as water pills like furosemide.
30746	Childhood schizophrenia has no cure. However, medications and mental health care services are available to help families manage the disease and cope with its effects. Antipsychotic drugs, which are also known as neuroleptics, are also prescribed help suppress, lessen, prevent psychotic behaviors or their recurrence. Psychotherapy for child and parents or guardians and special education programs addressing the child's learning and developmental needs are also available to complement the drug treatment. The patient is hospitalized when his or her psychotic behaviors present danger to himself or herself as well as others.
30749	Chlamydia is diagnosed through urine tests as well as specimen collected from areas such as the cervix and penis. Once diagnosed, chlamydia can be treated by taking antibiotics such as a daily dose of azithromycin and doxycycline. Sex partners should also be evaluated in order to stop the spread of te disease.
30750	C. trachomatis can be cured by antibiotics such as erythromycin, azithromycin and doxycycline.
30752	Cholangiocarcinoma is treated only by undergoing surgery. It could be fatal when the tumor is not surgically removed. When the liver is greatly damaged due to the tumor, a liver transplant would be required. Adjuvant chemotherapy as well as radiation therapy is taken after the surgery in order to improve the patient's recovery. However, adjuvant chemotherapy becomes ineffective when the tumor could not removed. Because of this a combination of adjuvant therapy and radiotherapy is recommended. Photodynamic therapy meanwhile is used to treat advanced cholangiocarcinoma, but this method is still under observation. It involves a light-sensitizing agent used to apply the light endoscopically to the tumor. Positive results have been shown after some trials, but it still needs further study.
30753	Treatment for PSC includes the bile acid ursodiol, which is used to lower the increased liver enzyme leves. Other medications are antipruritics and bile acid sequestriants, vitamin supplements with Vitamins A, D, and K, as well as antibiotics. Liver transplant is also recommended when the liver has already been severely damaged. In other cases, ERCP may become necessary to unblock the dominant strictures of the bile ducts.
30754	The most effective way to treat cholecystitis is by removing the gall bladder through surgery. Supportive medications are also given in preparation for surgery and these include antibiotics and fluid resuscitation. Antibiotics used for treatment consist of cephalosporin agents like ceftriaxone, and metronidazole. The patient then undergoes cholecystectomy, or the removal of the gall bladder. It can be done through a laparoscopic procedure or open surgery. Open surgeries are done only when complications have already developed and if the patient has had prior surgery in that area. Laparascopic procedures are less morbid, but it can be converted into an open surgery when the doctor feels that it might instead harm the patient. When severe inflammation occurs during surgery, the surgeon would require a radiologist to insert a percutaneous cholecystotomy tube to treat the patient with medications until it resolves.
30755	Gallstones can be treated using a number of methods. The first is by having them dissolved by ursodeoxycholic acid. They may reemerge however, once the treatment is stopped. Endoscopic retrograde sphinceterotomy followed by endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography may be taken when the bile duct has already been damaged. Choleliths can also be removed by surgery. However, cholecystectomy can cause side effects such as gastrointestinal pain and abdominal pains. Other patients meanwhile treat gallstones by taking a "gallbladder flush". In this case the patient takes 4-5 glasses of apple cider and consumes 5 apples each day for five days. He then fasts, takes magnesium and finally drinks large amounts of lemon juice with olive oil. The following day a number of green pebbles are flushed out of their system, purportedly being gallstones. But this treatment has been found to be false and the stones flushed are not gallstones but only hardened olive oil.
30756	Cholera is treated by taking water and electrolyte replacement, as the patient rapidly loses the fluids his body needs. Oral rehydration is proven to be safe and effective, easy to use and inexpensive. Intravenous rehydration may be used on complicated cases as well. Antibiotics are also prescribed to treat cholera, namely tetracycline. Other antibiotics include erythromycin, doxycycline, cotrimoxazole and furazolidone.
30758	Cholestasis of pregnancy is treated to relieve itching and prevent complications. The patient is prescribed with a medication such as ursodeoxycholic acid to relieve itching and increase bile flow. Anti-itch lotions or lotions containing corticosteroids may also be recommended as well as soaking the itchy areas in cold water. Patients may also undergo regular blood testing to monitor the liver and measure the amount of bile in the blood. Regular ultrasounds and nonstress tests may also be recommended to monitor the fetus' well-being. Sometimes the fetus is delivered early to prevent complications.
30760	Treatment of chondroblastoma is done by scraping the part of the bone where the tumor developed, and replace the infected bone with a bone graft material. Another considered treatment is radiofrequency ablation. It has less recovery time and is also less extensive.
30761	The main objective of treating chondrocalcinosis is by preventing the spread of crystals in the joints. The effects of the disease can no longer be reversed, but the other diseases related to it can be cured. Symptomatic joints meanwhile are treated with methods similar to treating gout. Magnesium supplements are also prescribed to the patient because pyrophosphate results to magnesium deficiency.
30762	The illness is usually treated by NSAIDs to stop the swelling and prevent from recurring.
30763	Possible treatments for CNH include checking your pillow is soft and considering fashioning a 'hole' in it so there is no pressure on the painful spot. Another treatment is by using a foam rubber or a bath sponge. Wearing a warm hat over the ears when outside in the cold and wind can also help for the treatment of CNH. Applying an antibiotic ointment under a light dressing can also be done if the CNH is ulcerated and as well as using a plain petroleum jelly may also be effective.
30764	There is no cure found yet for chondrodystrophy. A few surgical centers however take the risk of performing leg and arm lengthening experiments, but therapies are offered by various hospitals in order to help those affected by the disorder cope with their situation.
30766	It is treated by surgically removing the tumor and make grafting changes on the affected bone.
30767	Cure and medications are given based on where the pain comes from, so treatment procedures will only undertaken when the source of pain is determined. Treatment can be in the form of injection when the pain is caused by an irritation of the saphenous nerve, or physical therapy when one suffers from core instability.
30768	The condition may be treated through rest and use of ice. Physical therapy that supports the knee may be recommended for a speedy recovery. Such therapy may include electrical stimulation for muscle strengthening, knee braces, or arch supports. However, if these simple treatments are not effective, surgery such as arthroscopy or realignment may be recommended.
30769	Treatment for chondrosarcoma involves surgically removing the tumor from the affected area, followed by chemotherapy or radiotherapy in order to kill the carcinogens which may spread towards the other bones. Bone grafting procedures are also done when the affected part is severely damaged by the cancer, and physical therapy is as well required for the full recovery of the patient.
30770	There are no specific medications to cure chordoma, so patients are recommended to undergo surgical resectioning followed by radiotherapy in order to eliminate the tumor cells. However, this tumor may reemerge on a person who was once treated for it.
30771	Chorea is treated depending on its associated disease. Chorea in Huntington's disease is treated by dopaminergic antagonists, while Sydenham's chorea is treated by antibiotics to fight the infection.
30772	There is no treatment for this disease and eventually leads to death.
30773	Choriocarcinoma is one of the easiest cancers to treat, as this tumor proves to be the most sensitive to chemotherapy. Almost 90 to 95% of the patients with choriocarcinoma are cured, even those with metastatic choriocarcinoma. There is a risk though, that metastatic diseases, including this kind. When a patient with choriocarcinoma undergoes chemotherapy, treatment includes the etoposide, methotrexate, actinomycin D, cyclosphosphamide and oncovin (EMACO) regimen. Female patients above the age of 40 meanwhile may have their uterus surgically removed, or what is called as hysterectomy. This treatment however, works best for those already with infection and profuse bleeding, as well as the ones who want to be sterilized.
30774	Once diagnosed, chorioretinitis should be treated immediately with anti-infective drugs as well as systemic corticosteroids. The disease may cause gradual loss of vision to the patient when it not attended right away. Also, the patient must undergo other medical tests to ensure that other diseases such as tuberculosis and toxoplasmosis are not present, as they may emerge as a side effect of corticosteroids.
30775	Christmas disease was first treated by replacing the missing factor to the blood in order for it to coagulate. However the coagulation factor concentrates used were discovered to be potential carriers of viruses like HIV and hepatitis. Nowadays Christmas disease is treated with genetically engineered coagulation factors in order to avoid the acquisition of viruses.
30778	Treatment of chromosomal translocation is by genetic counseling.
30781	This genetic disorder is first diagnosed by using fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) to detect deletions in chromosome 22. Genetic testing can be taken in order to conduct such diagnosis, and this is available especially for prenatal testing. There is no particular treatment yet for this condition, as genetic transplantation is still being developed. It is thus important to detect the immune problems as early as possible in order to prepare for blood transfusion and immunization with live vaccines. Infections meanwhile are cured by antibiotics, and heart problems may undergo surgery.
30782	Early diagnosis of the disorder involves taking prescription corticosteroids to replace the body's hormone deficiency. The hormones are taken orally mimicking the normal hormone production of the body, which minimizes side effects. A patient facing a stressful situation, such as an operation or an infection will have an increased dosage. Patients that cannot take oral medication may use corticosteroid injections.
30783	Chronic berylliosis is incurable. Therapies such as corticosteroid therapy are prescribed, but steroids are not guaranteed to reverse the activity of the disease. Removing beryllium particles from the lungs is a slow and difficult process, not to mention expensive. Chelation therapy meanwhile is still under research as a treatment for chronic berylliosis.
30784	A chronic cough with a determined cause is easier to treat than with the unknown cause. The condition is treated depending on the cause. Doctors may prescribe medications such as antihistamines and decongestants or inhaled corticosteroids. Affected individuals may also need to change their lifestyle such as maintaining a healthy weight or stop smoking. For a chronic cough with an unknown reason, doctors prescribe a cough suppressant or possibly ipratropium bromide.
30785	Treating the underlying diseases or conditions of chronic daily headaches usually stops the condition. However, treatment is focused on preventing the pain if there are no underlying diseases or conditions. The type of headache determines the strategy of prevention. Chronic daily headaches sometimes resist all medications. Thus, complementary or alternative therapies are used by many people such as acupuncture, meditation, massage, herbs, vitamins and minerals, and chiropractic care.
30786	Patients may be prescribed with pain medications, stretching or strengthening regimens, and orthotics. They may also be advised to take a break from exercise, or adopt different biomechanical techniques. However, these options are not usually effective. The most effective treatment for the condition are surgical procedures that involve either cutting open the fascia of each affected compartment or removing part of the fascia.
30787	There is no exact cure for CFS, and combinations of drugs and therapies are recommended to relieve symptoms and improve body functions. A person with CFS also needs to take lifestyle changes in food intake and activities, and is as well prescribed with nutritional supplements and drug therapies to improve sleep, pain and other symptoms. It is also best to make regular visits to the doctor in order to monitor if one is improving from CFS.
30788	In order to treat a person with CGD, the disease should be first diagnosed early so that antibiotics can be prescribed immediately and keep an infection from happening. Also, the patient must be educated about his or her condition so that treatment can be given when an infection comes about. Doctors prescribe trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole as a prevention against bacterial infections. Fungal problems meanwhile are treated with itraconazole or voriconazole. Patients as well undergo the Interferon drug treatment in order to prevent infection, and this has been the standard treatment for CGD. Gene therapy is also considered as a treatment for chronic granulomatous disease, but the complications of this medication are still unknown.
30789	Chronic hiccups are treated by the use of drugs and medications, depending on the cause of their occurrence. Drugs such as Haloperidol, metocloparamide and chloropromazine are prescribed for some patients, as well as the anti-spasmodic drug baclofen. Chronic hiccups caused by electrolyte imbalance are treated by taking carbonated beverages with salt to balance the potassium-sodium in the nervous system. Meanwhile, medical technology came up with a new procedure involving the use of a vagus nerve stimulator to regulate the diaphragm for some patients with chronic hiccups.
30790	Medical substances such as corticosteroids and intravenous immunoglobulin are the primary medications prescribed for patients with CIPD. In severe cases, immunosuppresive drugs which are often cytotoxic are used to reduce the activity of the immune system. Patients also undergo physiotherapy to strengthen their bones and muscles for faster recovery. It also minimizes atrophy and joint distortion. It is important to diagnose the disease early in order to get the right treatment as well as to prevent the loss of nerve axons because they have the tendency to deteriorate as the disease develops. CIDP is a demyelinating condtion like Multiple Sclerosis, thus it is not possible to determine how the disease would affect the patient in the future. He may suffer a relapse, and it would be more devastating than the one he first experienced.
30791	The condition does not have a cure. Treatment only controls the signs and symptoms as well as reduces complications, and delays the condition's progress. Patients are advised to take proper diet and avoid substances that can be toxic to the kidneys. Medications to treat complications such as anemia may also be prescribed. For end-stage kidney disease patients, dialysis or a kidney transplant are only options.
30792	Chronic lymphocytic leukemia is incurable, and this disease takes a lot to develop. A lot of CLL patients have led normal lives for several years before learning that the disease has been with them for so long. What doctors focus on to how they can manage the disease and improve its symptoms rather than looking for the exact cure. CLL is treated with radiation therapy, chemotherapy or bone marrow transplantation. It is rather difficult to determine when to begin the treatment because there has been no survival advantage to regulating the disease at a very early time. When the disease is already intractable, the doctor is left with no choice but to resort to a bone marrow transplant procedure on the patient. It is however rare for doctors to use a bone marrow transplant because of the risks it can cause the patient.
30793	The condition is treated through observation and medication. If the thyroid is functioning normally, the doctor recommends a wait-and-see approach. If the patient has thyroid hormone deficiency, the doctor recommends a replacement therapy with thyroid hormone involving daily use of levothyroxine, which restores adequate hormone levels in the body.
30794	Chronic mountain disorder is treated by relocating to lower altitudes, as the symptoms slowly diminish by then.
30795	People with CML have several options for treatment including targeted medications, chemotherapy, clinical trials, biological therapy, and stem cell transplant.
30796	While most treatments don't actually cure the illness, they actually slow the progress. Treatment for the chronic stage is believed successful if the count of white blood cell reduces to less than what's considered fairly high level. High-dose chemotherapy together with stem cell transplant is the single chance of cure.
30797	Low doses of Corticosteroids or a different medication that suppresses a patient's immune system can reduce blood vessel inflammation.
30798	Treatment will depend on severity and cause. Drugs that cause neutropenia must be discontinued when possible, and exposure to alleged toxins should be avoided. Underlying diseases must also be treated.
30799	A very important treatment is to discontinue smoking. This will help lessen cough, reduce sputum amount, and slows down the development of breath shortness. Avoiding exposure to airborne irritants is also advised, such as air pollution and second-hand smoke.
30800	If the doctor determines the specific underlying cause of the pain, the treatment focuses on eliminating the cause. Otherwise, the treatment focuses on managing the pain. Doctors may recommend possible treatments for chronic pelvic pain such as pain relievers, hormone treatments, antibiotics, antidepressants, physical therapy, counseling, trigger point injections, and nerve separation. Surgery may also be recommended to correct certain underlying problems such as pelvic adhesions or endometriosis deposits. Self-care techniques may be used to ease discomfort such as relaxation, emotional support, and stress management.
30802	Treatment options include antibiotic treatment for flare-ups, non-steroidal anti-inflammatory medicines, and physiotheraphy may also aid in improving flexibility and movement of the surrounding joints and bones. Severe case re often treated with standard steroid doses that lessens inflammation and allows bone healing. An operation may be required if bone lesions are extremely prominent and gives problems.
30803	Diseases that may aggravate or cause chronic renal failure must be treated promptly. Antibiotics are used to treat bacterial infections, and any kind of obstruction in one's urinary tract should be relieved or removed. Medications or blood transfusions might be required to treat anemia. Fluids can be restricted, oftentimes to the quantity equivalent to the amount of produced urine. Kidney transplant or dialysis may sooner or later be required.
30804	Doctors treat chronic sinusitis by clearing the nasal passages and eliminating the underlying cause. Such treatment may include antibiotics, corticosteroids, decongestants and antihistamines, moisture and humidification, and immunotherapy. Cases that resist medications may opt for endoscopic sinus surgery. Ballon rhinoplasty, which is a new treatment, may also be recommended.
30805	Presently, no cure for chronic spasmodic dysphonia has been found. However, many treatment alternatives are available to improve the voice. Repeated small-dose injections of Botox into the vocal cords are often recommended. Psychiatric or psychological counseling is often very useful when the desired goal is learning coping techniques and acceptance of the disease. Voice therapy is also an option.
30806	The condition is treated to relieve the symptoms. The effectiveness of treatment vary from women to women. Affected individuals may opt for medications, biofeedback therapy, physical therapy, local anesthetics, or topical estrogen.
30807	Treatment generally includes high dosage of some cortisine-related drugs like prednisolone, which calms the inflammation. Cyclophosphamide is also you used to suppress the overly active immune system.
30808	Since Chylous ascites is a "manifestation" rather than an illness by itself, the treatment of any underlying cause or disease is important. Other treatments include bed rest, sodium restriction, fluid, and diuretic medications. A surgical intervention may also be required, as well as therapeutic paracentesis.
30809	The kind of treatment will generally depend on the severity of the disease. Corticosteroids in high dose are often a mainstay treatment. A patient can also go through plasmapheresis, which is a process of filtering antibodies from one's blood. Gold salt injections are sometimes used. Antibiotics may also be needed in treating infections of rupture blisters.
30810	A person experiencing ciguatera fish poisoning must be treated with medications that will help stop the vomiting, as well as be given fluids by IV in order to replenish fluids lost through diarrhea and vomiting, and a medication known as Mannitol to aid in reducing neurological symptoms.
30811	Most symptoms can be reversed and resolved through discontinuing the use of quinine. Mild symptoms typically resolve promptly; however, severe symptoms may persist for several months. Quinine is quickly absorbed, so any attempts to take out quinine in the stomach through gastric lavage might not be effectual. Multiple-dose of activated charcoal has shown to reduce concentrations of plasma quinine.
30812	Treatment is done by addressing the underlying disease that has caused it, to prevent further deterioration of the liver.
30813	A successful treatment is liver transplant to avert hyperammonemic crises. Other treatments would be to eliminate the preference of protein-rich foods, and correcting metabolic disturbances. In most infants, supplementing with vitamins that are fat-soluble, and using lactose-free formulas resolves symptoms. Diets that are lipid-rich, protein-rich, and low-carbohydrates can prevent the disorder.
30814	Treatment for the disease includes antibiotics such as penicillin and azithromycin.
30815	Once determined, the patient with Clarkson's disease is treated with albumin and extracellular fluid administration, supported with medications such as terbutaline sulfate and theophylline and corticsteroids.
30816	The condition is treated to prevent it from worsening or reduce the symptoms. If adopting a healthier lifestyle does not ease the symptoms, doctors may recommend medications, angioplasty, vascular surgery, thrombolytic therapy, or hyperbaric chamber.
30817	Surgery is the main treatment. At what time the surgery is done will depend on some things, including doctor suggestion, baby's health, and the condition of the cleft lip itself. Most doctors agree that the right time for surgery is when the baby reaches three months.
30818	Cleft palate is a very treatable condition. A palatal obturator can temporarily close the cleft palate. Also, corrective surgery is an option that can also be availed by patients and families. Surgery is usually done between 9 and 18 months of age.
30819	Treatment comprises dental procedures, orthodontic and surgical measures for addressing deciduous dentition. Middle ear and sinus infections require aggressive management; tympanostomy tubes may be required to for recurring middle-ear infections. If there is below normal bone density, vitamin D and calcium supplementation is done.
30820	In most people, mitral valve prolapse is harmless and doesn't require treatment or changes in lifestyle. However, some people may need treatment. Doctors may prescribe medications to treat symptoms such as chest pain, heart rhythm abnormalities, or other complications. Prescribed medications may include beta blockers, aspirin, and prescription anticoagulants. Doctors may also recommend surgical treatment if the patient has severe mitral valve regurgitation with or without symptoms. The surgery may be valve repair or valve replacement.
30821	Some cases of depression are treated by a primary care doctor. Others need psychiatrists, psychologists, or social workers. Standard options include medications, psychotherapy, and electroconvulsive therapy. Other emerging and less-studied treatments include brain stimulation and, complementary and alternative treatments.
30822	Surgery can treat patients who have cloacal exstrophy. The surgery will depend on the type of condition the child has, but the surgeries are usually several and last over a span of a few years. This type of surgery is called staged reconstruction. The earliest type of surgery that will be performed is just 24-48 hours after labor.
30823	Antibiotics and multi-drug treatments are given to patients affected by the disease. Proper sanitation and hygiene must also be practiced to prevent the proliferation of the bacteria.
30824	The Ponseti Method is a popular and effective method for treating clubfoot, and is also quickly becoming the norm in the United States. The method proves effective for about 95% of the cases, if performed correctly. Braces and surgery may also be done for treatment.
30825	There are several treatments aimed to reduce pain severity and shorten headache period. These include acute medications such as oxygen, sumatriptan, octreotide, local anesthetics, etc.; and both conventional and radiosurgery. Potential treatments are also being developed for the condition such as "implanted stimulator" in the hypothalamus for people with extreme headaches.
30826	Treatment is aimed at relieving symptoms and preventing complications. However, since a curative and efficient treatment has not yet been developed, systematic screening for the infection while pregnant must not be done. Importantly, parents who have children with severe CMV infection needs counseling and support to assist them in dealing with the probability of brain damage or even death of the child.
30827	Prevention is very important, as there's no cure for the disease. Coal workers' pneumoconiosis can be prevented through sufficiently repressing coal dust in the work area; ventilation systems can help. Masks that purify and filter air offer some extra benefit. A worker with the disease must be moved to a place where levels of dust are low; this will help stop progressive massive fibrosis.
30828	Treatments can be successful in stopping advancement, and even improve the vision in a number of cases. Cryotherapy and laser surgery may be employed to destroy abnormal blood vessels, which halts the disease's progression. Eye removal becomes an option if more complications arise.
30829	Many forms of coccidiodomycosis do not require therapy because they usually resolve spontaneously. However, patients with, or at risk of having the severe forms of the disease are treated.
30830	Acute forms of the disease often go away even without any treatment. Treatment of any flu-like symptom and bedrest is suggested until fever disappears. Severe cases must be treated with fluconazole, ketoconazole, amphotericin, or itraconazole.
30831	Cockayne's syndrome doesn't have a cure at present, so treatment is centered on alleviating signs and improving quality of life. Occupational and physical therapy helps preserve joint function, as well as reducing contractures of muscle. A patient must protect themselves from sunlight through sunscreen and clothing, which will decrease cell damage.
30832	The only effective treatment is by undergoing a gluten-free diet.
30833	There has been no standard treatment course and no cure for the syndrome. Treatment is supportive and symptomatic, and can also include speech therapy, educational services, and physical therapy.
30834	The therapy or treatment required for children that have the syndrome is dependent on specific symptoms of every individual. A number of children can require surgery for repairing malformations. Special education and speech therapy can also be considered depending on mental retardation degree, motor impairment, and developmental delay.
30835	Treatment options vary, depending on symptoms. Mild-eye disease can be treated using anti-inflammatory medicines, such as NSAIDs and steroids; other treatment for the symptom includes oral antibiotics and immunosuppressive medications. Inner ear excess fluid that cause balance problems are treated with prescribed diuretic drugs, which will increase urination and remove body fluid. Cochlear implants and corneal transplant are also options for treatment.
30836	Treatment alternatives vary depending on symptoms experienced and its severity. Successful treatment of obesity should decrease an individual's daily intake of calorie, at the same time as increasing activity level. Other options for obesity treatment include hormone replacement, surgical intervention, behavior modification engaging family, and exercise regimen.
30837	Conventional treatments can help alleviate its symptoms, but don't actually address the cause of its problem. Prevent being exposed to cold temperatures. Severe cases can require Chlorambucil or other similar drugs. High dosage of interferon or intravenous immunoglobulin might help several severe cases.
30838	Apparently, the most effective thing to do is staying warm. Allergy medications can be taken to get rid or prevent hives. Cold hives are potentially serious, sometimes even fatal in a series of reactions. It is important to carry injectable type of epinephrine to use in systematic reaction.
30839	Treatment is done by special antibiotic medications to stop the sores from developing. Avoidance of topical creams and lotions are also a must to prevent infections.
30841	Though colic has been proven to fade away in time usually when the baby reaches 3 months; there are still some who resort to prescription medicine like Mylicon to manage the condition; however the medication may have some serious side effects.
30842	Treatment may vary depending on how serious the disease is. General anti-inflammatory medications and antibiotics are administered to the patient. Treatment like Mesalamine and other drugs reduce and control swelling. In severe cases, surgery is often required to remove the damaged colon and create pouch from portions of the small intestine. An effective way to treat and ease the symptoms of colitis is to have a healthy diet, avoiding carbohydrate-rich foods.
30843	Numerous cases of collagenous colitis alleviate without treatment, typically within a few weeks. However, if symptoms are serious, doctors usually require treatment. The therapy recommended often start with easily tolerated and simple treatments. Treatment options include lifestyle changes, such as one's diet; medications; and surgery.
30844	The condition is treated based on its severity and to relieve pressure on the affected lung.
30845	Presently, no treatment has yet been developed for ocular coloboma. An individual with the condition can get specialist care at hospitals during its early years in order to monitor effects of coloboma in the health of their eye. Frequent check-up is required. Glasses may be needed, but they do not correct the problem.
30846	Surgery called colectomy is the primary treatment for colon cancer. Colectomy is the surgical removal of a portion of the colon containing the cancer or the entire colon if that is the case. Chemotherapy and Radiation Therapy, which is aimed at destroying cancer cells before or after surgery.
30847	Removal of polyps seen during bowel examination Surgical removal of polyps - if polyps are too large
30848	A pathologist microscopically examines a polyp to determine whether it is cancerous. The polyps are usually discovered and removed during a stool examination. Most polyps are removed during colonoscopy or sigmoidoscopy while small polyps are cauterized or burned using an electrical current.
30849	Treatment of the condition depends on its severity. If it is mild, medications may be prescribed to keep blood pressure at normal levels or antibiotics to prevent development of infections. Other cases may need hospitalization to be administered with fluids and nutrients through the veins as well as food intake restrictions. The condition is monitored with follow-up colonoscopies.
30850	There is generally no available treatment to provide cure for people with color deficiencies. However, there are certain types of contact lenses and tinted filters that can help an individual in trying to distinguish different colors. Professional optometrists may also supply a singular red-tint contact lens for patients with color blindness to wear in the dominant eye, which will enable the wearer to pass the regular color blindness tests for certain types of occupations.
30851	There are currently no specific treatment available to cure CTF. Symptomatic relief that are usually administered include treatment for pain and fever with analgesics and acetominophen.
30852	Colorectal cancer is mainly treated with surgery. However, treatment usually depends on the stage of the cancer. The doctor may opt for surgery, chemotherapy, or radiation. These options depend on the cancer's location in the colon, its penetration in the wall of the colon, and whether it is spread to the patient's lymph nodes or other parts of the body.
30853	Treatment depends on the cause of the coma. Individuals in coma are given assistance in maintaining their respiration and circulation. They may be administered intravenously with glucose or antibiotics in case of diabetic shock or the brain affected by an infection. Doctors may opt for surgery to alleviate brain swelling.
30854	The main goal of the treatment is to reduce risks of cardiac problems. This is usually done through drug therapy as well as diet changes which will require the reduction of calorie intake. Exercise as well as weight loss efforts are also part of the regimen. Among the common cholesterol-reducing drugs include nicotinic acid, statins, fibrates, bile acid-sequencing resins.
30855	There is no treatment for common colds. Antibiotics and OTC will not help. However, common colds are self-limiting and will eventually go away on its own. There are some medications that can help relieve the symptoms of common colds that include pain relievers, nasal sprays and decongestants, and cough syrups.
30856	The cure of Common Variable Immunodeficiency (CVID) is quite similar to the treatment administered by low levels of serum immunoglobulins. Gamma globulin treatment is also known to relieve and improvement of the symptoms. Patients who suffer from chronic lung disease and sinusitis may require prolonged treatment of antibiotics. Good nutrition and hygiene is also important as well as keeping away from crowds in order to avoid active infections.
30857	Patients with CAP need to have hospital treatment so that the infections in the respiratory system can be eliminated. The disease also requires constant monitoring to record prognosis.
30858	The treatment of acute compartment syndrome requires surgical treatment which is medically known as fasciotomy in order to allow the return of the pressure. For mild cases, conservative treatments may be provided such as anti-inflammatory drugs, rest, stretching and elevation of the limb.
30859	Treatment options for this medical condition include medications such as anti-inflammatory drugs, aspirin and ibuprofen. Application of hot and clod compress can also help alleviate sweating and swelling. Physical therapy and sympathetic nerve-blocking medications may also be prescribed for severe cases.
30860	There is no standardized treatment for the condition. Treatment options include psychotherapy, interpersonal therapy, psychodynamic psychotherapy, or medications.
30861	Individuals with compulsive gambling behaviors may be treated through psychotherapy such as cognitive behavior therapy by identifying and replacing unhealthy, irrational, and negative beliefs with healthy and positive ones. Medications are also options to help with the individual's emotional and mood issues related to his gambling behavior. Some individuals also benefit from joining self-help groups such as Gamblers Anonymous.
30862	The disorder may be treated through psychotherapy and medications such as selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors and paroxetine.
30863	Treatment of the disorder focuses on reducing eating binges, improving emotional health, and losing weight, if necessary. Treatment also addresses negative self-image and other psychological issues. Four main types of treating the disorder are psychotherapy, medications, behavioral weight-loss programs, and self-help strategies.
30864	Treatment of compulsive sexual behavior is focused on managing sexual urges and reducing excessive behaviors while healthy sexual activities are maintained. Individuals may be treated through psychotherapy, medications, and self-help groups.
30865	Cognitive behavioral therapy and habit reversal training with a qualified mental health professional could be helpful in the treatment of Compulsive Skin Picking. Dermatologist can however help them with the skin damages like scars brought about by repetitive picking episodes.
30866	There is no standard treatment for the condition but it usually involves medications and psychotherapy, and maybe with self-help groups.
30867	A person with concussion needs to rest to recover. For symptoms such as headaches, the individual is advised to take acetaminophen or ibuprofen but reminded to avoid aspirin because it increases the risk of bleeding.
30868	Functional family and multi-systemic therapies and cognitive behavioral therapy focused on anger management are considered as effective treatment approaches to conduct disorder.
30869	Treatment would largely depend if the hearing loss temporary or permanent. Severe cases with no hope of recovery have several coping treatment options available such as amplification, language and speech therapy and communication language such as sign language training and oral language. For corrective treatment options, cochlear implants and hearing aids are the main options, depending of the degree of the hearing loss.
30870	There are a number of treatments that patients can from when suffering this condition. Topical prescription drugs are the primary option, surgical removal and biological approaches may be also considered as an alternative. One of the popular treatment is Condylox, which is a topical treatment t be applied directly to the genital warts. Pregnant women should not use such products as it can possible cause birth defects,
30871	There are a large variety of medical treatments that currently exists for the treatment for condyloma acuminate. Among the most popular ones include podofilox solutions or gels that are prescribed to be applied 2-3 times dailym. Trichloroacetric and bichloroacetic acids are also among the treatment options as well as laser vaporization and surgical removal.
30872	Sadly, there is no existing conventional treatment for this medical condition. However, there are a number of introduced complementary medications that is believed to help people manage loss of sight. This includes omega-3 fish oils and CoQ10 medications.
30873	Treatments include medication such as dexamethasone or hydrocortisone. In certain cases, this medical condition may require multiple medications and may also require reconstructive surgery for patients with ambiguous external sex organs.
30874	Patients may be give blood transfusion containing plasma or cryoprecipitate, or the blood that contains the concentrated form of fibrinogen. Patients with such condition is also required to be have hepatitis B vaccine as in condition tend to increase the risk of contracting hepatitis due to the transfusion of blood.
30875	Anti-inflammatory drugs are used to treat the disease.
30876	A successful treatment of a congenital amputation would usually involve the coordination of an entire medical team. The accepted method of treatment today is the attachment of a functional prosthetics and plastic surgery.
30877	Treatment of patients suffering from congenital antithrombin III deficiency depends would largely depend on the clinical setting. For neonates with homozygote deficiency, both the venous and arterial thrombosis is examined, principally if treatment involves vascularly invasive procedures such as umbilical vessel catheterization and extracorporeal membrane oxygenation.
30879	In such special cases, a fetus that is diagnosed with CAM should be closely monitored during the pregnancy stage and perform a surgical removal after birth of the baby. For fetuses that develop some fluid collections in the chest cavity, a Harrision catheter shunt is administered to efficiently drain the accumulation of amniotic fluid. Fetus with some large cystic masses may sometimes pose serious danger during birth due to possible compression of the airways. In such cases, a surgical type of delivery is performed.
30880	Treatment approach would largely differ depending on the cause of the congenital deafness. Among the usual treatments include medications to treat possible infections, surgical procedures and hearing aids.
30881	Medical Care for patients with congenital diaphragmatic hernia include the attachment of the orogastric tube, use of mechanical ventilation strategies, alkanization, as well as possible fetal lung surgery including lung transplantation.
30882	Blood transfusions as well as the removal of the patient's spleen can significantly reduce the production of porphyrin by the bone marrow. Another treatment approach is the used of the activated charcoal administered by mouth. In severe cases, bone marrow and stem cell transplantation is also an option, which have shown great results among patients.
30883	Treatment approach for congenital Facial Diplegia typically includes surgery for any facial defects including plastic reconstructive surgery, feeding support for babies, and physical therapy.. 1
30884	Majority of the cases of congenital heart disoders can be improved or corrected with surgery. However, there are also some cases that do not require any form of treatment. Either way, a lot of individuals who have congenital heart defects are able to live full and healthy lives.
30885	In majority of the cases of congenital heart septum disorder, the holes have been known to close on its own with no aid of medication or treatment. However, regular checkups are required to check the condition of the heart and medications may be prescribed to relieve the symptoms and prevent possible infections.
30886	The medical therapy provided for congenital hepatic fibrosis patients is mostly during the detected presence of cholangitis. In cases of uncontrolled hemorrhage, surgical shunting or ban litigation may be performed. Surgical care also includes sclerotherapy and portosystemic shunt surgery.
30887	The specific medical treatment for herpes simplex virus involves antiviral medications and the appropriate care for the wounds, if any. For babies, a more aggressive and highly intensive medical care may be required.
30888	Surgical procedures are carried out not only to reduce the dislocation of the hip but also to repair any defect present in the acetabulum (socket) with the application of cast after the operation in order to hold the femoral head in position. Nonsurgical approaches used in the treatment of congenital hip dysplasia include chiropractic medicine, Orthosis (with the use of braces), exercise programs developed by physical therapist, and medications.
30889	Treatments for congenital hypothyroidism value the importance of early diagnosis along with thyroid hormone replacement. It is best prevented through supplementation of iodine, which is usually found in salt. Other supplementary treatment include intramuscular injections of lipiodol or iodized oil in the body.
30890	Treatment approaches include the stabilization of the patient's breathing, airway and circulation. The temperature, heart and respiratory rate should also be closely monitored. Lubricants are also applied on the skin in order to facilitate desquamation.
30891	There are no existing treatments for cases of congenital insensitivity to pain with anhidrosis as this is known as an incurable medical condition.
30892	Congenital megacolon is typically treated through a surgical procedure known as pull-through operation. There are three different approached under this procedure such as the Soave, the Swenson and the Dumahel procedure.
30893	Normally, the congenital mesoblastic nephroma tumor present in the newborn as characterized by a large asymptomatic mass, which typically requires local invasion.
30894	There are several drugs have been tried to somehow counteract massive secretory diarrhea of infants. However, none of these medications has proven effective. At present, TPN is the only available therapy Antisecretagogue agents can reduce the stool output. Surgical procedures may also be an option for the transplantation of the small intestines as well as allow the survival of the patient without TPN.
30895	Patients afflicted with congenital myopathy generally have normal life expectancy but suffers a non-progressive weakness of the muscle. Supplementary treatments should also include measures that would help patients to better with this medical conditions.
30896	Hospitalization may not be necessary as long as caregivers are able to provide proper educated parenting and close out-patient monitoring. Intravenous albumin and diuretics are usually administered.
30897	There are no specific therapies for congenital rubella infections. Some medical experts would usually recommend the administering of the immune globulin but this does not ensure prevention.
30898	The treatment used in all types of syphilis is Penicillin. Infants that are born to infected women, who have received sufficient penicillin treatment while pregnant, are at low risk.
30899	For infected pregnant mothers, Spiramycin may treat the infection. Sulfadiazine and Pyrimethmine may treat fetal infection when diagnosed at pregnancy. Infected infant's treatment usually includes sulfadiazine, leucovorin, and pyrimethamine for a year. They can also be given steroids at times, if their eyesight is endangered or if protein level is high in spinal fluid.
30900	The condition needs lifetime management. Although, a failing heart may become stronger and symptoms may improve with proper treatment. Some doctors can correct the condition through treating its underlying cause. Treatments may include medications, medical devices, and surgery.
30901	Many parents choose to end the pregnancy due to quality of life issues and the possibility of successful separation. Continued pregnancy is closely monitored and a surgical delivery is performed. The twins may be surgically separated especially if one or the other has survival issues or affects the other twin's survival.
30902	Treatment will depend on the cause. Allergic conjunctivitis can respond to treatment of its underlying allergies, or can disappear by itself when its allergen cause is removed. Cold compress can be soothing for allergic conjunctivitis. Other treatments for the disease include antibiotics, protecting the eyes from irritants, removing contact lenses, and washing the eyelids and face with baby shampoo or mild soap.
30903	A tumor that's present in just one of the adrenal glands is surgically removed. Tumors in both glands are treated with medical therapy. Medications that are potassium-sparing diuretics and ACR inhibitors are recommended. Low-salt diet is also suggested, as well exercise and avoiding alcohol and tobacco. Treatment is generally successful.
30904	Biofeedback, a technique used in stimulating better coordination of muscles used in defecating is suggested by the doctor if the cause of constipation is pelvic floor dysfunction. Milk of Magnesia can act as a mild laxative and doctor may also prescribe stool softener to soften fecal matter. The safest and most effective treatment for constipation is changing or modifying the lifestyle.
30905	Constipation in children is treated with increased fluid intake as well as proper diet that include high amounts of fruits and vegetables.
30906	Treatment options for CGD include medical care aimed at acquiring a number of careful growth measurements; and balanced diet that have enough calcium and calories to support bone development and normal growth. It's not necessary to restrict activities, but one must know their physical limitations in contact sports. Since CGD isn't a disorder but instead a normal growth variation, medical treatment isn't necessary.
30907	The condition is treated by identifying its cause and avoiding it. Wet compresses and anti-itch creams also help soothe the skin and reduce inflammation.
30908	In most cases, patients normally think symptoms is caused by ill-fitting contact lens solution toxicity contact lenses when in truth the main culprit is the solution. An ophthalmologist would usually recommend ointments and eye drops to treat the condition. However, most treatment plans would rely on the severity of the condition.
30910	Treatment approaches differ from patient to patient, taking into account the underlying factors, perpetuating factors, and events that trigger the condition. Treatment options include psychotherapy, suggestive therapy, physical therapy, hypnosis, transcranial magnetic stimulation, and treatment of psychiatric reactions and related stress.
30911	Treating the disorder will depend on the severity and type of thalassemia. For minor thalassemia, an occasional blood transfusion is required, especially after delivery, surgery, or if one develops an infection. Major thalassemia often needs regular blood transfusions. Medications that help dispose extra iron are prescribed.
30912	Treatment options for Copper transport disease include oral copper supplements, intravenous copper, supportive and symptomatic treatments. Early treatment using oral or intravenous copper supplements may provide some benefits. If given as treatment within an infant's first few months, copper histidinate shows efficiency in increasing life expectancy in some.
30913	Treatment is aimed at eliminating symptoms, and can include medicines to manage pain, stopping trigger medications, intravenous sugar, intravenous fluids, and hematin. Other treatments include phlebotomy and activated charcoal.
30914	Treatments are aimed at the disorder's underlying illness. This may include supplemental oxygen, medications, calcium channel blockers, prostacyclin, sildenafil or bosentan, and blood thinning medicines.
30915	The treatment approach for corneal abrasion is largely based on the diagnosis. Among the most common treatments include antibiotic treatments and ointments to reduce the inflammation. Pain pills and anesthetic may also be administered to manage the pain.
30916	Treatment also depends on type and severity corneal dystrophy. These may include topical anesthetic eyedrops, antibiotics, soft contact lenses for vision improvement and discomfort reduction, surgery, and cornea transplant.
30917	The treatment for this condition is quite similar to that of corneal abrasion. Patients are usually administered with an antibiotic treatment and general avoidance to rubbing the eyes to prevent further damage.
30918	In most cases, the physician can easily remove the corneal foreign body using instruments that are specifically designed for thee eyes. After the removal, patients are advised to administer regularly an antibiotic eye drops to prevent the development of infection. For severe cases where the foreign body has deeply pierced the cornea, immediate medical attention is required and permanent blindness is most likely.
30919	In most cases, interdisciplinary approach of treatment and therapy of any health issues that develop is suggested. Treatments for an affected child's health include physical and occupational therapy, as well as speech therapy.
30920	In the case of persistent and sever corns, the doctor may advise surgery, although such cases are quite rarely. It is important to remember that people with diabetes should never attempt to cure corn by themselves since they are at greater risk of contracting infection. There are a number of over-the-counter medications to treat corn such as VIranol and Salactic Film.
30921	The doctor recommends lifestyle changes for healthier arteries such as eating healthy food and regular exercise. Medications or surgical procedures may also be recommended to blood flow.
30922	Changes in one's lifestyle can promote better arteries. For smokers, quitting is a very important thing to do. Eating healthy and regular exercise. Sometimes procedures and medications are needed for improving flow of blood. Medications include cholesterol medicines, beta-blockers, aspirin, ACE inhibitors, and calcium channel blockers. Procedures include laser revascularization, coronary artery bypass surgery, coronary brachytherapy, and angioplasty and stent placement.
30923	Currently, there are no particular medical treatments for the disorder, but affected individuals can benefit from a variety of educational support, services, and developmental therapies. It's important to seek medical advice from specialists, such s neurologists, physical therapists, geneticists, occupational therapists, and others.
30924	Individuals with cortical dysplasia may suppress seizures through medication and surgery. Surgery is more commonly employed.
30925	There is no cure and no treatment to slow down the progression of this condition. Symptoms do not respond to therapy, while medication treating the Parkinson's disease-like symptoms are observed to have no significant and long-term effect.
30926	Medical interventions for Costello syndrome are aimed at addressing the symptoms and complications presented by the disease. It is therefore important for patients to undergo cardiology evaluation to detect heart conditions, therapies to improve mental development, and monitoring growth of tumors, orthopedic problems. Feeding problems, parents may opt to give their children gastrostomy tubes, or drip-feeding.
30927	Medication may not be necessary for this condition because Costochondritis and the pain it causes just fade away. Doctors may prescribe nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (ibuprofen and naproxen), antidepressants, and muscle relaxants to help patients deal with the pain. One may also exercise, rest and use heating pad.
30928	Costosternal chondrodynia usually subsides on its own. However, to ease the pain, doctors may prescribe medications such as nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, antidepressants, or muscle relaxants. Patients should also rest, exercise, or applying a heating pad to the affected area several times a day.
30929	Costosternal syndrome usually subsides on its own. However, to ease the pain, doctors may prescribe medications such as nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, antidepressants, or muscle relaxants. Patients should also rest, exercise, or applying a heating pad to the affected area several times a day.
30930	The best method of treating SIDS is by prevention. Expecting mothers should adequate prenatal care and avoid exposure to harmful substances. Breastfeeding is also a must.
30931	Even if there is no cure for this disease, patients' conditions are alleviated through a multitude of physical and occupational therapies tailored to fit the symptoms of the patient. In severe cases of deformities, orthopedic surgery should be performed to correct severely joints and limbs and symptoms like hernia and unilateral hip dislocation.
30932	There is no typical treatment for the condition because couvade syndrome is not usually indicated in medical books. The only known cure for couvades syndrome is birth of the baby because the symptoms disappear as soon as the baby is born. Relieving the effects of the symptoms is often managed in typical approaches like rest and eating crackers when experiencing nausea and vomiting.
30933	Managing Cowden's syndrome rests primarily on the early detection, such that patients should undergo periodic mammograms, thyroid scans, laboratory tests, among others.
30936	There is no cure for the condition but immediate treatment can relieve symptoms and prevent the loss of vision. Thus, the doctor starts medication before a diagnosis is confirmed through a biopsy. High doses of a corticosteroid drug are used to treat the condition.
30937	Mutation analysis of the TGFB1 gene needs to be conducted to eliminate the possibility of Camurati-Engelmann disease.
30938	Usually, surgery is advised in order to stop the skull's sutures from closing and damaging the development of the brain. Orthognathic and orthodontic surgeries are done to correct the cosmetic issues associated with the disorder. Further, several patients are made to wear cranial bands or custom-fitted helmets after surgery.
30940	Treatment for this disorder normally involves surgery to split the webbed sutures of the patient's skull. Cosmetic issues are addressed through performing both orthognathic and orthodontic surgery. These procedures can "lessen" the deficiencies in the midface.
30941	To divide the closed sutures and reshape the skull, surgery is performed on the child. A combination of orthodontic and orthognathic surgery can be done to relieve some of the midface deficiency necessary to treat the facial deformities.
30942	Though there is no known cure for the disease, a patient may avail of therapies to manage the disease. A patient should also exercise regularly, quit smoking, protect himself from cold, manage stress and keep skin moist.
30943	There are a variety of medicines that are prescribed and appropriate for infants with cretinism including thyroxine and T4 tablets. Progress should be closely monitored every two to three weeks during the early stages of life.
30944	Search for CJD's cure continues. Experimental treatment of the medication called pentosa polysulphate, which is used in treating interstitial cystitis, slowed the progression of the disease. No sufficient data however suggests that this would be an effective treatment.
30945	There is no treatment that addresses Cri du chat, however, addressing metal retardation should be the parents primary concern.
30947	The only treatment that cures CNS is total or partial liver transplant, an operation that needs to be proceeded with long-term use of drugs that weakens the immune system, allowing the patient to be more susceptible to other illnesses.
30948	General supportive therapy Antiviral drug ribavirin Value of immune plasma recorded from patients used for therapeutic purposes
30949	There is no cure for this disease but it can be managed through medications that treat infection and reduce inflammation. Patient have to make lifestyle adjustments in terms of diet, proper hydration and avoiding smoking.
30950	A combination of intensive treatments, which may include medications, surgery and changes in diet, are necessary in managing the disease and its complications effectively. Replacing fluids, electrolytes along with meeting required nutrients are helpful. Systemic infections may be remedied by antibiotics. Surgery is advisable to address complications such as malignancy, bleeding ulcers, intussusception, and perforation.
30951	Taking care of children afflicted with Croup usually involve getting them to breath moist air, taking them outdoors to break the attack and sometimes taking steroids. It may be helpful for parents to stay with their children for the whole duration to observe the progress of the disease. Doctor's intervention is necessary if these remedies are do not cure the fast breathing and cough. Doctors will prescribe medicines to reduce swelling. It is also recommended that the child gets plenty of rest and drink lots of fluids.
30952	Surgery is necessary to prevent the premature fusion of sutures from doing damage to a patient's brain's development. When the closure goes unchecked, Crouzon syndrome may result to mental incapacity and blindness. Surgery is also advisable to correct the malformations in the patient's features.
30953	Treatments for the skin disorder may not be required.
30954	The scientific community has not proven a therapy or medication to have effectively managed or treated the disease.
30955	Managing cryoglobulinemia disease involves careful monitoring and therapy. Medications like prednisone, chemotherapy, and anti-inflammatory drugs are administered to manage the symptoms. In severe complications, plasmapheresis, a treatment that reduces the cryoglobulins levels, is undertaken. Patients may also avoid going to cold areas to prevent certain symptoms.
30956	If the immune system is still functioning, the patient with cryptococcosis in a small area of his lungs may not need treatment. Patients with weak immune system are advised to take fluconazole, Drugs used to treat people with a weakened immune system include fluconazole. For his meningitis, the patient is given amphotericin B.
30957	The condition usually self-corrects. If not, surgery may be an option to move the testes in its proper position in the scrotum. Another option is hormonal therapy in which the descent of the testes is induced.
30958	Treatment is aimed at lessening the symptoms and improving the immune system of an infected individual by means of anti-motility medications to relieve diarrhea, anti-parasitic drug like azithromycin to alleviate diarrhea by attacking the metabolic processes of the parasite, fluid replacement to keep the body hydrated to function properly, and anti-retroviral therapies to reduce the viral load in the body and strengthen the immune response of the individual.
30959	The disease has no reliable treatment because infected humans with healthy immune systems usually recover from it. However, the disease in those with unhealthy immune systems may lead to malnutrition and wasting. Treatment of the disease is focused on alleviating its symptoms and improving the person's immune response. Treatment options may be taking of anti-parasitic drugs, anti-motility agents, fluid replacement, and anti-retroviral therapies.
30960	Treatment for the injury is by physical therapy, change in work lifestyles and adequate rest.
30961	There are no existing treatments available to cure Currarino's triad. Surgeries may also be performed for infant patients. Early diagnosis is highly important in the treatment of this medical condition. Genetic counseling is strongly advised for patients as well as for the whole family, since they are in essence carriers of the defective gene to be educated on the implications and care for this disease.
30962	Surgery is the primary treatment for Cushing's Syndrome, which is typically done to remove the adrenal adenoma. While this disorder may be caused by steroids, it is important to remember than this medication should not be stopped abruptly.
30963	Cutaneous anthrax, like the more fatal inhalational anthrax can be treated with antibiotics, with doxycycline or ciprofloxacin as the first line for treatment. Other recommended antibiotics are erythromycin and penicillin. Cutaneous anthrax would usually be treated for approximately 10-14 days.
30964	Before any treatment is administered, it is important to determine if lesions are benign or malignant to ensure proper treatment approach and attention is given. If the lesion is precancerous, the lesion may be freezed using liquid nitrogen and topical chemotherapy is likely to be used. If the lesion is benign, usually no treatment is required. For cancerous lesions, a surgical procedure is advised to remove as application of a topical chemotherapy agent is advised. In such case, radiation therapy may also be recommended.
30965	Cutaneous larva migrans or CLM involves the following treatment methods: the use of systemic or oral agents which include ivermectin and albendazole; the use of a topical (or oral) agent known as thiabendazole. This anti-helminthic medication can cause nausea when taken orally.
30966	Steroidal creams are usually used to treat Cutaneous lupus erythematosus lesions. This cream is usually applied to the lesions at least twice a day until the lesions disappear. For milder rash formations, a weaker formulation of the cream is often prescribed. Other treatments also include thalidomide, cyclosporin, acitretin, methotrexate, intravenous immunoglobulin, gold, clofazamine, cyclophosphamide and dapsone. Oral steroids can also be used in severe cases.
30967	Cutaneous T-cell lymphoma is primarily treated with phototheraphy, and is known to be highly ideal for patients that have large areas of affected skin. A drug called psoralen is also prescribed to sensitize the the skin that best respond to the ultraviolet light treatment. Te photochemotheraphy is much like sitting under a sunlamp and would usually require patients to be treated several times in a week.
30968	There are no treatments that currently exist to prevent the progression of the disease. Surgical procedures may be conducted to correct skin folds, and facial defects.
30969	To date, there are no existing treatments available to cure Cutis marmorata telangiectatica congenital, although the symptoms can be treated separately or provide relief.
30970	No treatment is needed for cutis rhomboidalis nuchae.
30971	Before any form of treatment may be administered, a definitive diagnosis should be properly established. Cutis verticis gyrate is usually considered as a cosmetic problem that can be treated through a surgical operation but may have some psychological repercussions. The hygiene of the furrows and folds is highly important and at times a medicated shampoo is recommended.
30972	There is no available ideal therapy to cure cyclic neutropenia, but recombinant G-CSF or the granulocyte-colony stimulating factor is primarily known to be highly effective among chemotherapy patients as well as in patients that suffer congenital forms of neutropenia .
30973	The cyclic vomiting syndrome doesn't have any cure. Severe episodes would require hospitalization and medications which may include tricyclic antidepressants, analgesics, triptans and anti-nausea drugs.
30974	Antibiotics are used to treat cyclospora infection but it is prevented through food-safety precautions. Although it is self-limiting, the infection can recur. Thus, its treatment is focused on preventing loss of fluid in the body and getting rid of the parasite.
30975	Cyclothymia is categorized as a long-term condition that will require permanent treatment, administered by a qualified mental health provider. This condition increases the risk of developing bipolar tendencies. Medications include some mood stabilizers, anti-seizure medications and antidepressants.
30976	Medications that can help control cyclothymic disorder include mood stabilizers for mood regulations like Lithium, anti-convulsants to avoid mood swings like valproic acid and anti-psychotic medications like olanzapine. Psychotherapy such as cognitive behavioral therapy, group therapy and family therapy is an essential part of cyclothymic disorder treatment.
30977	Folic acid and vitamin B-6 supplements can help improve the condition of the patients affected by the disease. However, there is still no specific cure to the disease, especially with mental retardation.
30978	There is no direct cure for CF, but treatments are directed on symptoms of the disease. Antibiotics, exercise, chest physical therapy, controlling of lung infection, preventing blockages in intestines and providing adequate nutrition are the most common treatments for people with CF.
30979	Cystic Hygroma can be treated by complete removal of the fluid filled sac or abnormal tissue. In cases where the cystic hygromas have already invaded other neck structures, the surgery will be impossible. Other treatments can be done such as chemotherapy, sclerotherapy, radiation therapy and steroids but with minimal success. In some cases, when the complete removal is impossible, the cystic hygroma normally returns. Other tests include ultrasound and CT scan.
30980	The drug cysteamine (Cystagon) effectively helps eliminate the presence of cystine from the patient's body. While this drug may not be able to reverse the damage already done, it can prevent or slow down further damage from occurring. Cysteamine is considered as a highly beneficial to patient's cystinosis, especially when medication is started early in life. To cure impaired kinder function, mineral supplements are usually required such as potassium, phosphate, sodium and vitamin D.
30981	The primary treatment for cystinuria is focused on the kidney stone formation prevention. Patients are asked to drink large amounts of liquid such as water and citrus to dilute stones and reduce acidity. For medications, Penicillamine, alpha, captopril, mercaptopropionylglycine or bucillamine may be prescribed. For severe cases, kidney surgery may be required as well as change in diet.
30982	Cystitis caused by bacterial infection is generally treated with antibiotics. Treatment for noninfectious cystitis depends on the underlying cause. Antibiotics are known to be the first treatment against bacterial infection. Individuals with recurrent UTI, a longer antibiotic treatment is often required.
30983	Various treatments or combinations of treatments may be tried in order to relieve the symptoms of interstitial cystitis since no treatment works for everyone. It may be through bladder distention which is done by stretching the bladder with water or gas and such procedure may be repeated if the response is long lasting. It may also be through oral medications that may help relax your bladder and block pain such as antihistamines which provide relief from symptoms for some people. And lastly, through nerve stimulation using mild electrical pulses, relieving pelvic pain and reduce urinary frequency in some cases.
30984	The treatment for cystocele is dependent on the severity of the condition. Self care measures such as special exercises to strengthen the pelvic floor muscles may be done in mild cases or to those with few or no obvious symptoms. Treatments in case self-care measures are not effective may be done through estrogen therapy to those who have experienced menopause which can either be done orally or in a vaginal cream, where estrogen which helps keeps muscles strong decreases after menopause. Another treatment is done through vaginal pessary where a plastic or rubber ring is inserted in the vagina, supporting the bladder by pushing it up back into place.
30985	There's no cure for the infection. Generally, good hygiene that includes appropriate hand washing is suggested to stop passing on of virus from one person to the other. Medications may be administered, such as acyclovir and ganciclovir to reduce virus amount in one's body. The drugs are taken all through life; no vaccines for cytomegalic inclusion disease have been developed.
30986	No particular cure or treatment for the infection has been found. However, anti-virus medications will be helpful in the treatment of CMV in individuals with the HIV infection.
30988	Dandruff treatment may take a little persistence and patience since it is a chronic condition that can almost always be controlled. OTC dandruff shampoos may succeed when regular shampoos fail but you may need to experiment until you find the one that works best for you. According to their active ingredient, dandruff shampoos are classified like zinc pyrithione shampoos such as Selsun Salon and Head & Shoulders where they contain the antifungal and antibacterial agent zinc pyrithione, showing to reduce fungus that causes seborrheic dermatitis and dandruff. Tar-based shampoos such as Neutrogena T/Gel also slow cell turnover, helping conditions such as dandruff. The other classifications of dandruff shampoos are Ketoconazole shampoos (Nizoral) and Selenium sulfide shampoos (Selsun Blue).
30989	The best way to treat the disease is by fumigation and practice of proper sanitation procedures. Antibiotics are used to treat patients with the disease.
30990	Treatment for affected individuals usually comprise of treating the disease's related problems, if need be. The skull may be drained of excess fluid using a special tube procedure. Genetic counseling may also help the parents of affected children if they're considering more children.
30991	The preferred treatment for severe Darier's disease is 'oral retinoids'. In cases of flares, oral or topical antibiotics can be administered. Topical corticosteroids and cyclosporin have been employed for acute flares. A number of affected individuals are able to avert flares using oral vitamin C and topical sunscreens. Besides medical care, surgical treatment may also be done, such as electrosurgery, dermabrasion, and others.
30992	Although daytime sleepiness has no cure, lifestyle modifications and medications may help manage symptoms. Among the medications are antidepressants, sodium oxybate (Xyrem) and stimulants that stimulate the central nervous system, letting people stay awake during the day.
30993	There is no standard cure for the disease. Special therapies meanwhile help reduce the symptoms of the disease.
30994	The primary goal of the treatment of De Quervain's tenosynovitis is to reduce pain and swelling, This may include immobilizing the wrist and the thumb, avoiding repetitive motion, applying cold and hot compress on the affected area as well as use of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs.
30995	Treatment of De Sanctis-Cacchione syndrome includes medical care, consultations, medications, and avoidance of some activities. Medical care approach may include treating skin hypersensitivity, as well as providing supportive neurologic care. Each patient with the disorder needs regular monitoring by opthalmologist and dermatologist. Consulting a geneticist can help differentiate the disorder from other comparative conditions. Patients also need to avoid exposure to the sun in order to protect the skin, as well as wear protective clothing, dark glasses, and sunscreen if exposure to the sun can't be avoided.
30997	Decubitus ulcers are treated by constant cleaning of the lesions.
30998	The infection can be resolved by the injection on intravenous antibiotics to fight the bacteria that cause the swelling. Combinations of antibiotic treatments are also prescribed as well as adequate rest. Severe cases however, will require surgery.
30999	Medications such as blood thinners and thrombolytics are often used in the treatment of deep vein thrombosis aimed at preventing the clot from getting bigger and breaking the clot respectively.
31000	Deerfly fever can be treated with antibiotics such as gentamicin or streptomycin, which are usually administered through injection directly on the vein or muscle. Patients are also advised to undergo therapy just in case of possible complications such as pneumonia and meningitis.
31001	Treatment is done by prescribing NSAIDs to the patient to stop the inflammation. Patients are also advised to do regular exercise to strengthen the bone muscles as well as maintain proper posture. A calcium-enriched diet is also recommended.
31002	There is no specific treatment for ALS. Management of symptoms is advised to at least reduce the effects of the disease. Physical and occupational therapies are as well prescribed to maintain flexibility of the muscle tissues.
31003	Treatment of the disease may range from medical care, surgical care, consultations, medications, and inpatient- or outpatient-care. There has been no known successful medical therapy. Antiplatelet drugs can reduce number in new lesions and in patients where there's only skin involvement. Appropriate surgical intervention is required when there is an occurrence of intestinal perforation, gastrointestinal bleeding, intracranial bleeding, or bowel infraction.
31004	Treatment is aimed at slowing the progression of the disease. Symptoms and any underlying diseases are also treated to slow down progression. Medications are administered to treat the pain, which is one of the most affecting symptoms of the disease.
31005	The first step in treating the condition is controlling diabetes or any other underlying condition causing gastroparesis. Dietary changes and medications that increase stomach contractions are the mainstay of gastroparesis treatment as well.
31006	The primary for of treatment for delirium is to address the triggering cause or factor. Other treatment include the prevention of complication by providing enough fluids and nutrition and protecting the airways.
31007	No standard cure is available for the illness. Patients meanwhile are in need of constant support from their family members.
31008	Demodicidosis responds quickly to external treatments, which can consist of daily face and skin cleansing with water and soap, as well as the application of compound sulfur ointment for some weeks.
31009	Treatment of the disease depends on type and severity. Treatment may be management of acute attacks, disease-modifying treatments, therapies, management of effects, medications, and alternative treatments.
31010	There is no particular treatment for dengue fever. However, mild form of the fever is treated by drinking sufficient fluids to prevent dehydration due to high-fever and vomiting. Acetaminophen is also administered for fever and pain. Drugs that should be avoided include nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs and aspirin. Severe dengue fever will involve supportive care treatments in hospitals.
31011	Because Dengue hemorrhagic fever is essentially caused by a type of virus for which there is still no known cure or available vaccine, the only form of treatment available is to treat the symptoms. This includes blood transfusion, administration of IV electrolytes and fluids, oxygen therapy and rehydration.
31012	Until now there has been no proven effective treatment for Dent Disease and most practices are supportive in nature. These are:Thiazide diuretics, Amiloride, employment of Vitamin D for patients with Osteomalacia, and a high citrate diet.
31013	Dental Fluorosis can easily be treated cosmetically by a dentist. Results will however vary depending on the treatment used. For mild cases, bleaching can be effective, while severe cases can be restored through porcelain veneers. These methods, however, are not given to children below three years old until acurate measure of a childs exposure to fluoride can be determined.
31015	Routine restorative techniques like intra-coronal restorations can be applied to treat mild to moderate Dentinogenesis imperfecta. But in severe cases with significant enamel fracturing and fast wearing of the teeth, full coverage of the crown is the treatment that can be effectively used such as using porcelain fused to special metal crowns. To effectively correct discoloration, bleaching is reported to be a good option. Of course, before any treatment is administered it is wise to have a dentist ascertain what type of Dentinogenesis imperfecta has affected the patient.
31016	Up until today, there is still no available treatment for this type of mental ailment. However, medical experts recommend psychotherapeutic techniques that can help treat patients and manage their difficulty in relating to reality.
31017	Treatment for depression can be done by counseling as well as intensive moral support from the parents. Family guidance should be prioritized so as the child would not engage with the wrong set of friends or get stuck up with mingling emotions that can affect his mindset and behavior when turns into an adult.
31018	Depression can be treated with constant family support. Engaging in counseling programs and therapies are helpful as well since these activities guide one in the proper release of his emotions. Antidepressants meanwhile are given to those who have chronic depression and other mental illnesses.
31019	There is no known cure for this disease at present and most treatments applied are focused on a specific symptom at a time so it doesn't really treat the disease as a whole condition. Options, however, can include reduction of weight and lately liposuction is administered. Lipomas are also taken out through surgery and some medications are given to reduce or control pain.
31020	Gluten-free diet is often recommended to control the disease without the help of medications, although in most cases, an anti-biotic, Dapson, is helpful.
31021	Determining and then managing the underlying venous insufficiency is the most important, where postural drainage may be used to counteract the high venous pressure. Exercise is encouraged while standing is discouraged and the patient should be encouraged to lie on the bed for an hour in the afternoon with the legs drained, similarly, they should be encouraged to sleep with the foot of the bed raised.
31023	The treatment plan for nummular dermatitis may include the administration of high potency topical steroids, which are typically applied twice daily on the affected areas. For severe cases, a light therapy is recommended with ultraviolet B coupled with oral antihistamines to provide relief against itching.
31024	When washing the face, it is best to use mild soaps to prevent further irritation, scrubbing the area should also be avoided. It is important to identify the product that causes the skin ion condition and stop using the irritant. A topical antibacterial cream or lotion may also be used to provide immediate relief.
31025	Treating is only recommended by physicians if the lesions always gets in the way of shaving and gets irritated. Surgical excision can be performed. In some studies, another way of treating the disease is by using a 600 nm Pulsed Dye Laser which also showed positive results and provides better cosmetic outcomes compared to excision.
31026	Antihistamine medications may be recommended by your doctor if the disorder becomes severe or bothersome. The inflammatory chemical released by an individual's immune system during allergic reactions called histamine may be blocked by these drugs. But usually, the treatment of dermatographia isn't generally necessary for its symptoms naturally go away on their own.
31027	Dermatographic urticaria can be treated by cromolyn or mast cell stabilizer. Another treatment also includes anithistamines which prevents the histamine from causing the swelling.
31028	The use of some immunotherapeutic agents like methotrexate, corticosteroids, cyclosporine, azathioprine, total lymphoid irradiation, and cyclophosphamide has been administered and proven to be effective but not in the long term. A new treatment has now been developed to treat this disease. These treatments are chemicals developed from proteins derived from the cell. Another study also focuses on a new treatment that utilizes an agent that helps improve muscle stength of the patients. This agent is called Campath.
31029	There is no specific medical care for this disease, however symptomatic management of some of the conditions being associated to this disorder like palmoplantar hyperkerastosis are being administered. For such method, the use of keratolytics and topical retinoic acids could be of great help while cold compress can be very helpful too.
31030	To treat Dermatophytids, the primary ringworm causing the reaction should be treated first, then it just disappears normally. Clinical studies also suggests the use of cortocosteriods as effective in treating the disease. Other treatments include the use of topical anti-fungal pills that contains clotrimazole, miconazole, butenafine, terbinafine, and tolnaftate. Some products that contains Pyrithione zinc like the Head and Shoulders shampoo is also proven to effectively treat ringworm in the scalp and body as well. Terbinafine is also a new treatment for children from ages 4 and up.
31031	Anti-fungal treatments is effective in treating this disease. For uncomplicated cases, a topical antifungal treatments like clotrimazole, terbinafine cream and miconazole should be effective enough. Some special cases also administer oral antifungal drugs or use of corticosteriods also.
31031	Over-the-counter antifungal lotions, powders, ointments or spray may be prescribed by your doctor for mild conditions, where most infections respond well to topical medicines such as miconazole (Micatin), Terbinafine (Lamisil AT) and Clotrimazole (Lotrimin AF). For severe fungal infections, oral medication may be prescribed such as fluconazole (Diflucan), itraconazole (Sporanox) and terbinafine (Lamisil).
31032	Surgical correction cannot be done to treat the disorder. However, when an affected woman incurs uterine cancer, the affected organs can be surgically removed.
31033	Complete surgery with negative margins to remove desmoid tumors is the most effective treatment for this disease as positive margins have high risk or recurrence. Radiation therapy may be helpful to treat recurrence. Other treatments also include administration of anti-estrogens and chemotherapy.
31034	There is no specific standard way to treat the disease and often times it is misdiagnosed as other illness. Once diagnosed, aggressive chemotherapy is applied and considered the most effective treatment for the tumor. Other treatments applied are debulking operation, radiation therapy, cytoreductive surgery. With other options as intensity-modulated radiation therapy, stereotactic body radiation therapy, clinical trials, intraperitoneal hyperthemic chemoperfusion, and hematopoietic stem cell transplantation.
31035	There is no specific treatment for cerebral palsy. Special education programs as well as constant parental care are required to help the child develop his psychomotor skills.
31036	Generally, treatments used are supportive and symptomatic in approach although corticosteroids are sometimes prescribed.
31037	Treatment of the disease itself is often supportive and symptomatic only as most people who carry the disease lead a normal life and are not at threat. In some cases where a patient manifest serious heart malformations, treatments always vary depending on the malformation. Families who have history of this genetic disorder are also advised to take counseling to help them cope with the disease. Although, genetic alterations are now on progress still it is not a proven effective way of treatment.
31038	There is not a standard treatment for this disease. If treatments are needed, they are mostly symptomatic and address specific problems only but not the whole condition. Treatments also depends the extent of malformation of the heart or the visceral organs.
31039	DI can be treated with a certain drug than can be taken orally or through the nasal cavity, this drug is called desmopressin which is a diuretic drug that is commonly prescribed by physicians to treat bedwetting or control urination especially when the patient is asleep.
31040	The mode of treating Diabetes varies, usually depending on what type of diabetes they are dealing with. For type 1 diabetes, the primary treatment is by replacing insulin combined with careful blood sugar level monitoring using monitors for blood testing even at very early stages. Adjusting the lifestyles of the patient is also a step being done and emphasized by physicians. Insulin can be supplied in the body through injections, pump, or through inhaling. Type 2 diabetes, in the other hand, is usually treated by endulging in more physical activities, planning diet and reducing intake of foods with high carbohydrates and therefore losing weight. This method, however doesn't correct the cells' tendency to resist insulin, and so these measures should be continued. Next step, is taking oral anti-diabetic pills.
31041	To treat this disease, insulin supply is being given to the patients either through pump, injection or a form of insulin that can be inhaled. Diet and exercise is also being encouraged by physicians especially for patients with unhealthy weights. Diet includes less carbohydrate-rich food intake. Treatments are often continues and patients' blood sugar level are carefully monitored.
31042	Treatments often recommended by Physicians for the patient includes control of the level of blood sugar, avoiding high blood pressure or hypertension, improving levels of cholesterol, monitoring the levels of protein in the urine called proteinuria, conduct eye tests to examine vessels and check dilated pupil, care for the feet, indulge in regular exercise to encourage blood circulation, healthy diet, getting and maintaining healthy weight, limiting intake of alcohol and definitely no smoking. Doctors may also recommend aspirin therapy.
31043	Whether your blood sugar level is high too high or too low, it is the basis for the emergency treatment of diabetic coma. Intravenous fluids to restore water to your tissues may be given if your blood sugar level is too high. Sodium, potassium and chlorine supplements may be needed to help your cells function correctly. Short-acting insulin may be used to help your tissues absorb glucose again when enough fluid has been replaced. You may also be given an injection of the hormone glucagons if your blood sugar level is too low.
31044	There is actually no known treatment for diabetic dermopathy. However physicians usually advise the patient to closely control and monitor the blood sugar and help manage diabetes better.
31045	This medical condition requires emergency treatment without a few hours through the administration of intravenous fluid. This is done to restore the fluids in the tissues as well as other supplements loss during the ailment. Any underlying infections need to be diagnosed and treated.
31046	Fluid placement either through a vein or orally that will replace those you've lost through excessive urination and also help dilute the excess sugar in your blood is one of the treatments when diagnosed with diabetic ketoacidosis. Another treatment is through insulin therapy, where it reverses the process that cause such disorder. Electrolyte replacement can also be a treatment for diabetic ketoacidosis.
31047	The main treatment, especially once proteinuria occurs, are drugs called ACE inhibitors.Blood sugar levels are to be monitored closely and controlled. Medications given by Physicians to manage the disease include insulin injections and oral hypoglycemic agents. The diet may also be modified to help control glucose levels. Lipid levels are also monitored and controlled, patients are required to have a healthy weight and maintain it, and also engage in regular exercises. Patients should also avoid taking contrast agents which have iodine contents, non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) which are commonly used like ibuprofen, or Celebrex which are COX-2 inhibitors. Appropriate antibiotics are used to treat infections and dialysis may also be necessary especially on patients suffering the end-stage renal disease. A kidney transplantation must also be considered for this stage.
31048	The goal of the treatment of diabetic neurapathy is to interrupt the pathologic process of the disease to prevent complications and to minimize pain and other symptoms. Such as tight glucose control is the treatment of sensorimotor polyneuropathy, trycyclic antidepressant helps decrease painful symptoms of the disease but dependent patient may suffer its side effects, antiepileptic drugs, which is the first line treatment to be given for painful neuropathy. Other treatments are Methylcobalamin is a vitamine B12 ,alpha-lioic acid an anti-oxidant, Photo Energy Therapy dilates apilaries and venoules and vegan diet with moderate walking exercise.
31049	The treatment for diabetic retinopathy which depends on the type of diabetic retinopathy you have, how well it may respond to specific treatments and as well as its severity may be done through early diabetic retinopathy, where your eye doctor will determine if you need laser treatment after closely monitoring your retina. Other treatments include advanced diabetic retinopathy where you'll need prompt surgical treatment.
31050	Patient with DBA can choose the following options to manage the disorder: maintain Corticosteriod medication, patient can also have Blood transfusion but frequent transfusion can lead to iron over load and cause organ damage and Bone marrow transplantation is a very invasive procedure is the last option of the patient especially if the patient is experiencing iron over load. All of this options are responsible to increase the red blood cell count of the body.
31051	Keeping your baby's skin as dry and clean as possible is the best treatment for diaper rash. Your doctor may prescribe a mild hydrocortisone or an antifungal cream as a diaper rash treatment if it still persists during home treatment.
31052	There are many treatment options to select from but choice of option are based on different affecting factors to consider like time of diagnosis either upon birth or during pregnancy, the baby's overall medical and health history, how severe the problem is, the baby's tolerance to medications, therapies or procedures, and the parent's opinion. Treatment options include neonatal intensive care, extracorporeal membrane oxygenation, or some surgical procedures.
31053	Distilled water therapy is given to children affected by diarrhea. Medications that reduce the loose bowel movement are also administered. When not treated, the condition can lead to more serious diseases such as cholera.
31054	Diastrophic dysplasia does not really affect speech or intelligence. A lot of children with this disorder undergo many surgical procedures within 48 months from birth. Some may be put on long-leg or waist-to-toes casts to address dislocated hips and/or clubfeet.
31057	Treatment for DISH mainly requires physical therapy to keep the joints strong and flexible, as well reduce the onset of calcification of the ligaments.
31058	DPLD is a secondary disease or a complication of different diseases. The treatment of this disease is depending on the etiologic factors. If a specific factor is found, the patient must prevent exposing the substance. The patient with Connective tissue disorder id given Prednisone to prevent further inflammation,while patient who are experiencing hypoxia or lack of oxygen supply in the body should immediatelt administer oxygen therapy.
31059	There is no specific treatment yet found for the disease.
31060	There is no treatment of this disease. But symptoms must require immediate treatment. A Life threatening hypocalcemia requires lifetime vitamin D supplements, immune problems must identify early and special precaution must provideto the patient who are required blood transfusion and immunization with passive vaccines. Thymus transpalantaion can also help patient with no thymus gland.
31061	Certain corrective treatments are done to correct the disorder, often times done considering factors such as the extent of the disease. Treatments are also well considered by both the physician and patient as some treatments may threaten the life of the patient if not handled well or if a wrong treatment is administered. Medical care and follow-up therapy are also done.
31062	Treatment for DCM is the standard treatment for myocardial problem. It includes low fat and salt diet, angiontensin - converting enzyme inhibitor, Diuretics, to increase the excretion of the urine, digitalis and anticoagulant medication, exercise and food supplements, Coenzyme Q10, L-Carnitine, Taurine and D-Ribose.
31064	A surgical removal of the supernumerary penis is the common surgery for the diphallic patient. But complex reconstruction is another management if severe malformations are associated.
31065	Antimicrobial treatment is needed immediately like Erythromycin by orally or injection, penicillin gevin intramuscularly if the pateint is allergy with penicillin used erythromycin ,rifampicin or clindamycin as alternatives. the patient may experience difficulty of breathing and swallowing because of swelling of the lymph node in the neck, seek medical atention immediately. And also for tachycardia, it could lead to cardiac arrest.
31067	SLE is not curable, but there is palliative treatment for the patient. Non- steroidal anti-inflammatory drug, ultraviolet radiation and lifestyle modification and anti malaria helps control the disease and prevent the symptoms to occur, analgesic for symptoms of pain, Immunosuppressant drugs and bone marrow transplant are still under investigation for the cure of SLE.
31068	Childhood disintegrative disorder has no cure. This disorder can be treated basically the same as for autism. Treatment alternatives include medication and behavior therapy.
31069	Putting your shoulder bones back into place is one treatment for a dislocated shoulder. The doctor may help your shoulder bones back into their proper positions by trying some gentle maneuvers through the process called closed reduction. But if your dislocated shoulder bones can't be moved back into position by closed reduction, a surgical manipulation (open reduction) may be necessary.
31070	Depending on the site and severity of your injury, the doctor may try gentle maneuvers to help your bones back into position as treatment for the dislocation through the process called reduction. It would also depend on the amount of swelling and pain and you may need a local anesthetic before the manipulation of your bones.
31071	People with disorganized schizophrenia don't return to their previous functional abilities without treatment while episodes of symptoms may vary in intensity and duration. The disorder can be managed by coordinated treatments such as individual psychotherapy that supplements drug treatment, training in social and vocational skills, antipsychotic medications that may prevent the recurrence or lessen the intensity of psychotic episodes and family group therapy.
31072	Immediate treatment is required for an aortic dissection since it is a medical emergency. Medications or surgery may be included as therapy, depending on the area of the aorta involved.
31073	Treatment approach for Dissociative Amnesia is primarily focused on restoring memory loss. This is usually done through hypnosis, medications and therapy.
31074	Distal Myopathy has no treatment and remedies to stop progressive muscle impairments. But there are orthopedics assistive devices that help patient to perform her/his activity daily living, exercise like active and passive ROM also help to prevent further weakness and contractures, proper nutrition intake and surgery to correct contractures and preserve patient mobility and independence.
31075	An acute diverticulitis is often treated through a conservative medical treatment/management which includes bowel rest like no food intake by mouth, fluid resuscitation through the IV, and employment of antibiotics, broad-spectrum usually to take care of the anaerobic bacteria and the gram-negative rods. Surgery may also be required for acute attacks that are recurring or some complications that may have aroused. Low residue diets will also be placed on the patients, after, patients are then exposed to a high-fiber diet. In some special cases, surgery is required to take out the affected area of the colon especially for patients who had repeated episodes are likely to benefit from the surgery.
31075	During acute stage the management should provide to the patient are bowel rest thru NPO or nothing by mouth, IV fluid replacement therapy, and broad spectrum antibiotics. After discharge the patient diet must be low residue diet to give enough time to the bowel to be totally heal, then later on high fiber diet is encourage. For severe cases surgery is needed.
31076	The treatment of dizziness which doctors would base is on the cause and the symptoms of the disorder.
31077	Treatment for dizziness can be done by taking analgesics. The underlying cause of dizziness should be treated as well.
31078	Various topical treatments are available to "exfoliate" the scales. These include various lotions that contain alpha-hydroxy acids.
31079	Treatment for DORV are determined basing on your child's age, overall health and history (medical), or how your doctor expects the condition may develop more, how bas is the condition, tolerance of your child for different procedures, specific medications, or therapies. You will also be asked for your opinion on the matter. The best treatment a surgery to connect the aorta to the LV. There are several different approaches for this surgery. One of these methods is the intraventricular repair.
31080	Treatment is rarely needed if you have a double uterus but no signs or symptoms. If you have a partial division within your uterus, surgical procedures might be helpful in uniting double uterus but this is rarely done.
31082	People with this disorder are likely to carry it throughout their lifetime, special learning approaches are being introduced to effectively communicate with them. Physical deformities can be corrected through cosmetics.
31084	The most widely used treatment for dracunculiasis is by wrapping the worm around a stick when the worm begins to emerge from the person's skin. This is done further a few centimeters perhaps everyday. It is important to avoid the worm from breaking because leaving behind a portion of the dead worm will increase risk of infection for the patient. Metronidazole or thiabendazole is also equally effective as the stick therapy.
31085	Often, Dressler's syndrome heals on its own even without any form of treatment. However, doctors would usually recommend complete bed rest to give the body enough time to recover and heal naturally.
31086	Anti-inflammatory drugs are used to treat the swelling of the affected tissues. In some cases surgical treatment is needed to remove the fluids that cause the swelling.
31087	Treatment to drug eruption is to stop the intake of the drug causing the rashes.
31088	Treatment can be done by stopping the use of the disease-causing substances, as well as addressing the current disease that caused the liver damage.
31089	In treating dry mouth, the doctor needs to first determine the underlying cause of the condition. If it is brought about by medication, dosages are usually adjustment or ask patient to switch to another type of medication.
31090	A number of self-care measures can be done to treat dry skin, including the use of moisturizers to hydrate the skin as well as avoiding long baths and hot showers. Doctors may also prescribed medications such as lactic area creams to treat dry skin.
31091	Treatment for dry socket includes medicated dressings, flushing out of the socket and medication to manage the pain.
31092	Duane syndrome is not curable because of the absence of the cranial nerve, which cant be replaced. There has never been any expectation that surgery may result in increase in the eye movement range. Thus, surgical treatments are only recommended if the patient cannot maintain binocularity at specific areas and other very very valid reasons.
31093	Treatment of Dubin-Johnson sysndrome is usually not necessary because most patients lead a normal life and have normal life spans.
31095	There is no known treatment for the disease Duchenne muscular dystrophy. However, there have been reports on the recent research in stem-cell which has been showing promising vectors that could possibly replace the damaged muscle tissue. Treatment availabale today are generally aimed at manage and control of symptoms of the disease to maximize and enhance the quality of life, and include the following.
31096	Treatment for Ductal carcinoma in situ includes lumpectomy and combination of other treatment such as radiation therapy and simple mastectomy.
31097	Treatment plan for dumping syndrome may include dietary changes such as easting smaller meals, avoiding intake of fluids during meals, as well the consumption of more food that are low in carbohydrates. In advanced cases with patients experience serious sumptoms, surgery may be required.
31098	To date, there are known si condition, treatment available for this condition. A surgery may be conducted but would often require extensive studies to decrease the risks of complications. Supportive medical therapies for patients and genetic counseling may also be needed to help the patient as well as the family to be better informed and cope with the ailment.
31099	Surgery is suggested in cases where severe contracture needs to be removed. Radiation therapy is applicable in early stages and inhibits contracture development. Where relief is needed, Triamcinolone(kenolog) injection is applicable. Surgical management usually consists of cutting open the skin over the afflicted cords and then excise and remove the fibrous tissue. The fingers can then be brought out to a certain length with the help of the performance of postoperative therapy. This procedure is not to be considered curative in the remaining unaffected fascia and may still develop Dupuytren's disease in the future, and in which case the patient may require repeat surgery.
31100	Treatment includes medications such as antihistamines and decongestants. In serious cases, immunotherapy can help in controlling the symptoms of dust mite allergy.
31101	Therapeutic interventions are typical solutions to prevent or reduce any form of physical dwarfism. It is also applied to increase adult height and provide some solutions to psychosocial problems and provide adaptation. In some cases, braces or other orthotic devices and even surgical procedures are adapted. Simplest intervention is through dress enhancement like shoe or hairstyle. The most effective means of increasing adult height by several inches is limb-lengthening surgery, though not availabile in many countries and cost is high in terms of dollars and can cause discomfort.
31102	There are no cure but there are medications to stabilize a patient's condition and these are needed on long term basis.
31105	Transfusion of Cryoprecipitate or fresh frozen plasma would depend on the extent of bleeding problem. Patients who are experiencing recurring thrombotic episodes may need prolonged treatment with an anticoagulation called Coumadin. To address recurrent miscarriages, doctors may administer prophylactic cryoprecipitate.
31106	Germinomas, like several other types of germ cell tumor, are sensitive to both chemotherapy[7] and radiotherapy. For this very reason, with regular administration of treatment increases the patients' chances of enjoying long term survival, even attain full cure and recovery, has excellent chances. Although chemotherapy have been known to shrink the germinomas, it is not generally one of the recommended treatment to be conducted alone since there are a number of contraindications ralated to radiation that is possibly based on a medical study recorded in the early 1990s where etoposide, carboplatinum, and bleomycin were given to more than 45 germinoma patients. The results showed the about half the patients had a relapse. Most of these occurrence of relapsed patients were reported to have recovered with the application of a radiation or additional sessions of chemotherapy.
31107	Muscle training and teaching good writing techniques are essential part of early training with the aim to treat dysgraphia. There are exercise that can help increase strength and dexterity usually recommended by a specialist.
31108	Treatment dyshidrosis may include the administration of corticosteroid creams, antihistamines, compresses to relieve the pain and blisters. In such treatments do not provide any improvement, doctors would usually recommend ultraviolet therapy.
31109	Dyskeratosis congenita patients may undergo short-term medical treatments to address failure in bone marrow using anabolic steroids, and a lot others. The lone long-term treatment option is in the form of stem cell transplantation or SCT.
31110	To ease the symptoms or severity of dyskinesia, doctors advise treatment using bromocriptine. However, this method has been reported to be unsuccessful. Patients who are just starting to experience the symptoms of the disease are normally reluctant to undergo l-dopa medication until the need is vital. Those who are already experiencing severe stages of the disorder caused by high doses of the drug may undergo deep brain stimulation or DBS. This treatment option has been found to benefit dyskinesia patients in more than one way. First, DBS permits the l-dopa dosage to be reduced by 50-60%. Second, DBS by itself, can lessen dyskinesia.
31111	As far as medical treatment available for iatrogenic tardive dyskinesia is concerned, the neuroleptic drugs should be gradually withdrawn for a period of at least 3-6 months to be able to see if this discontinuation of the medication will resolve the issue, but the main problem may have failed to improve. In such situation, it would be more practical and sensible to provide trial to the patient on tetrabenazine 25-50 mg/8h PO.
31112	Treatment for dyslexia is by means of remedial education, which must consist of techniques involving hearing and vision to improve reading skills; known as multisensory method of teaching.
31113	Special education and parental support is needed to help children cope with these disorders. Through constant guidance and care, the symptoms of the disorder can be decreased.
31114	Dyslexia is treated with intensive tutorial programs since children in this condition find it a struggle to read, write and spell. Special education programs tend to address this condition.
31114	Treatment for dyslexia can be done by constant family support combined with focused, special education classes.
31115	Treating the underlying cause of secondary dysmenorrhea may include antibiotics to treat infection or surgery to remove uterine fibroids and polyps. Pain brought about by dysmenorrhea can be relieved by means of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) that are available over-the-counter such as ibuprofen or naproxen. Low-dose oral contraceptives to prevent ovulation can reduce prostaglandin production to minimize the severity of cramps.
31116	There is no specific treatment for the syndrome, only avoidance of the agents that may cause the syndrome. Among these procedures are weight loss, proper diet and exercise as well as limited alcohol consumption.
31117	Most often, patients with dysmorphophobia do not welcome psychiatric referral because they refuse to acknowledge any underlying psychiatric condition. Regardless how frequent visits to cosmetic surgeons or dermatologists may be, these rarely improve dysmorphophobic symptoms. The use of serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SRIs) has so far been the most efficient treatment method for patients of dysmorphophobia. The most commonly used types of SRI include: fluoxetine, clomipramine, and fluvoxamine.
31118	The syndrome can be reduced by treating the underlying cause of pain and discomfort. Medications such as cisparide help reduce pain in mild cases of dysmotility.
31119	So far, science has not come up with a specific treatment method for the problems of the bones development. However, oral surgeons can be made to check the patients' teeth regularly, while ontologists can take care of the hearing problems.
31120	Treatments for this problem includes altering hygiene habits such as changing the soap that may zap the natural lubrication of the genitals, counseling on sexual techniques, enhancing communication between partners as well as the use of lubricants.
31121	The best way to treat dyspepsia is to avoid foods and situations that can cause it like for smokers to quit smoking. Avoid foods that are greasy or solid foods that contain meat often times help. In severe situations, the doctor recommends only small amounts of soft foods and only liquids.
31122	Medications may include antacids, acid blockers as well as proton pump inhibitors. Behavioral therapy may also be required.
31123	Treatment for dysphagia depends on the specific cause of the swallowing difficulty including prescription oral medications to reduce stomach acids if that is the cause of the difficulty.
31124	Dysphasia is treated by special education programs that focus on supporting the child in learning the lessons of speech and how to use them coherently.
31125	Doctors destroy abnormal cells by freezing the skin with nitrogen in liquid form. Radiation therapy can gradually remove the mole by shrinking the size of the mole until total elimination is achieved. Microscopic evaluation is often carried out to remove atypical moles with distinct appearance and suspicious changes presented. The use of prescription cream to remove the dysplastic nevi is another treatment option for these skin growths.
31126	Part of the treatment for dysplastic nevus is the general avoidance to direct sun exposure as well as the application of sunscreen from factor 30 or even higher. Surgical procedures may be also conducted to eliminate the possibility of melanoma development.
31127	There is no available treatment to cure dyspraxia but there are approaches to help a dyspraxic deal with difficulties and improve performance in routine activities.
31128	There is no available cure for dysrhythmias, although there are available treatment approaches to help manage the symptoms. This includes medications, educational therapy, occupational therapy and surgery.
31129	Among the most common medications for Dysthymia include selective serotonin inhibit ors such as Prozac and Zoloft. Another popular antidepressant pill is the Tofranil.
31130	Medications like tricyclic antidepressants can be effective in depressed individuals suspected to have dysthymic disorder. Psychological therapies including interpersonal psychotherapy, cognitive-behavioral therapy or family therapy can help the patient develop healthy problem solving skills. When these methods are combined together remission of symptoms and psychosocial recovery will have greater chances of achievement.
31131	The treatment for dystonia is limited to the minimization of the symptoms that comes with this disorder. However, to date there is no successful treatment available to provide complete cure. Some popular forms of relief involve relaxation, moderate exercise and plenty of rest.
31132	Treatments for cervical dystonia include medications, stress management, botulinum toxin injections and surgery. Surgical options would usually include selective denervation surgery and deep brain stimulation.
31133	There are currently no treatments for Dystrophy Myotonic.
31134	There is no standard treatment for the Eagle-Barrette syndrome. Antibiotics meanwhile are only given to patients with respiratory infections.
31135	Treatments are usually focused on alleviating the symptoms suffered by patients with this medical condition.
31136	Treatment for ear infections include the antibiotic therapy, administration of drainage tubes if the child does not respond to medications, and in some sever cases surgery may be required.
31137	In most cases, ruptured ear can heal on its own after a few weeks or so. Other treatment options include eardrum patch to seal the hole or tear. In severe cases, doctors may advise a surgical procedure if a patch is not sufficient in closing the hole.
31138	Treatment for early menopause includes estrogen therapy, which can also help prevent osteoporosis as well as relieve other symptoms of this medical condition, as well as supplements for calcium and vitamin D.
31139	The treatment approach for early puberty will largely depend on the cause. In most cases, a GnRH analogue therapy is advised. Naturally, for brain tumors, a surgical procedure is required.
31140	Most ear wax blockage cases can be treated at home using mineral oil, baby oil, glycerin, or commercial drops that can soften the wax. Hydrogen peroxide or carbamide peroxide may also aid in removing the wax. Irrigation is another method of treating the blockage. This is done by using a body-temperature water and directing a small stream of water against the ear canal wall next to the wax plug using a syringe. This must be done with the head upright and then tipping the head to drain the water. The ear should be dried thoroughly with a few drops of alcohol or setting a hair dryer to low. If attempts are unsuccessful, it is best to consult a health provider. Most doctors also use irrigation and suctioning.
31141	Counseling and proper diet are the main procedures to treat emotional eating. Moral support form friends and family is also recommended.
31142	There are no known cure for Ebola hemorrhagic fever and the sever cases would require some intensive supportive medical care.
31143	People suffering from Ebstein's anomaly are required to receive continued medical care from an experienced cardiologist who specializes in handling congenital heart defect cases. In mild cases, a surgery is normally not needed. However, for people with severe conditions with leakage, a surgery may be required.
31144	Speech therapies and other kinds of special education likewise address the problem of echolalia. Some autistic children however develop progressive mental retardation making the defect untreatable.
31145	There is no known treatment for eclampsia as well as there are no existing medications that can help prevent this medical condition from occurring. Once eclampsia is detected, magnesium sulfate is administered intravenously to prevent recurrence of seizures.
31146	There are currently no existing treatment of cure for Ectodermal dysplasia. However, medical procedures are usually conducted to alleviate the problems and complications that arise from the symptoms, including surgery in severe cases.
31147	Primary treatment include a delicate fetal surgery procedure that would require extensive research.
31148	Ectopic heartbeats often do not require treatment. A person only undergoes treatment is the symptoms are severe and occurrence is very frequent. Treatment may also be needed if an underlying cause is found.
31149	Early treatment of ectopic pregnancy involves administering antimetabolite methotrexate that has been proven to present viable alternative to surgical treatment. This medication disrupts the growth of the embryo but also causes the cessation of pregnancy. For late detection, a surgical intervention is the solution.
31150	There are a number of treatments that can help correct the malformation of the hand and feet. Surgical procedures are usually done and the use of prosthetics provides an alternative solution to enhance appearance of the hand. Occupational and physical therapy may also be required to help patients better adapt to their condition and make their hands and feet fully functional.
31151	Corticosteroid creams and ointments may be prescribed by the doctor to reduce itching and scaling of the skin. Oral antihistamines like diphenhydramine can be prescribed for severe itching especially during bedtime. Generally the aim of treatment is to reduce inflammation, prevent future eruptions and relieve itching.
31152	Anti-itch medications or antihistamines may be taken to lessen the itching. Moisturizers and strong steroid creams or ointments are also recommended for use. Affected persons are also advised not to scratch the rashes, avoid frequent bathing and using irritating substances since they can worsen the itching.
31153	For most men with this problem, lifestyle changes can help. Cutting down on smoking, alcohol, and illegal drugs, getting plenty of rest, exercise and a healthy diet, using safe sex practices, and discussing things with the partner are among the suggested steps to correct the problem.
31154	Edema can be treated at home. Options include pressure-reducing mattress, using a lamb's wool pad, or a flotation ring. Also suggested are maintaining everyday activities such as keeping limbs above the heart level when lying down. It is also sometimes recommended to reduce salt in the diet. Skin breakdown in chronic edema cases need to be further discussed with the physician.
31155	There is no available cure for Edwards' syndrome. Abnormalities may be treated to some certain degree with some surgical procedure, but the administering of some extreme invasive procedures proves to be fatal to an infant. Medical therapy involves supportive care to prolong life.
31156	The only way to prevent egg allergy is to avoid products that contain egg as one of the ingreadients. Allergy medication such as antihistamines can also help reduce the symptoms of an allergy attack.
31157	The general treatment of egg hypersensitivity is quite simple - general avoidance to egg and egg products. For patients with severe cases, it is often advised to come up with a diet plan and careful avoidance to the egg products. An ephinephrine shot may also be necessary to carry around just in case the patient suffers from a severe bout of allergic reactions.
31158	Skin suture and surgery are among the forms of treatment available but requires to be undertaken with maximum care since the fragile tissues may possibly tear. Bracing may also be used to provide support for unstable joints. Physiotherapy and occupational therapy are often advised to help strengthen muscles as well as teach aids for daily living.
31159	Antibiotics are commonly administered to treat this disease as well as fight off infection. However, children are not usually prescribed with tetracycline as this has been known to cause permanent discoloration of the teeth.
31160	Vaccines are now available to prevent the onset of the illness. Other treatments include drugs that cure the symptoms of the disease.
31161	The aims on the treatment for Eisenmenger's syndrome are primarily directed at effectively decreasing the pressure in the pulmonary artery as well as significantly improving oxygenation. This may be done through medications to decrease pulmonary hypertensions, supplemental oxygen, and phlebotomy.
31162	Treatment involves therapy that would require psychological assessment as well as unwavering support of family and loved ones.
31163	Primary treatment of this medical condition involves a medical procedure called fluid shunting to reduce the swelling.
31164	Orthopedic surgeries can be conducted to correct some malformations as well as the removal of extra digits in the hands and feet.
31165	Treatments for Emery-Dreifuss muscular dystrophy is entirely focused on the management of this debilitating disease. Patients are usually provided with walking aids such as canes and wheelchairs. Other medical assistance also includes a cardiac pacemaker, an implantable cardioverter defibrillator, as well as possible heart transplantations for severe cases.
31166	There are techniques that have been useful in treating emetophobia. First technique is desentization wherein the person is gradually exposed to pictures of vomit and people vomiting. Patients are also given anti-sickness medications. They can also undergo Cognitive Behavior Therapy. This explores and tends to understand the thought behind this disorder. Some people with emetophobia get better after they actually vomited.
31167	Major action to be taken to slow the development of this disease is for the patient to stop smoking and avoid exposure to cigarette smoke and lung irritants. Emphysema is also treated by supporting the breathing with anticholinergics, bronchodilators, steroid medication and supplemental oxygen as required. Supplemental oxygen used as given (usually more than 20 hours per day) is the only non-surgical treatment which has been shown to extend life in emphysema patients.
31168	There is no specific treatment for primary empty sella syndrome if pituitary function is normal. Bromocriptine which lower the prolactin level may be prescribed if the prolactin levels are high and interfering with the function of the ovaries and testes. For secondary empty sella syndrome, it involves replacing the hormones that are lacking.
31169	Treatment is aimed at curing and controlling the infection by means of antibiotics and removing the accumulated pus in the lung cavity by using a chest tube to totally drain the pus. In cases when expansion of the lung is not enough, the surgeon will perform decortication, which is a procedure that peels away the lining of the lung.
31170	Patients will mild encephalitis can be monitored at home but most will need care in the hospital. Treatment is usually symptomatic. Reliably tested specific antiviral agents are accessible only for a small number of viral agents (e.g. acyclovir for herpes simplex virus) and are used with some degree of success for most infection except herpes simplex encephalitis. Among the patients who are extremely sick, the administration of supportive treatment, including mechanical ventilation has been proven to be equally important.
31171	Patient stabilization during the early stages of encephalitis lethargica is the best treatment. No evidence of consistent effective treatment for the early stages, but taking steroids has shown improvement. Levodopa and other anti-parkinson drug often show dramatic responses.
31172	Reparative surgeries following birth are the only effective treatment of Encephaloceles.
31173	Treatment for encephalocele anencephaly is mainly supportive. There has been no standard treatment or cure found for the disorder. An extensive range of studies are being conducted, to explore complex systems of a normal brain growth. Knowledge from these studies provide a foundation for knowing how the process may go wrong, thus offering hope for new methods of treatment and prevention of hereditary brain disorders, including NTD.
31174	Anti-inflammatory drugs used to suppress inflammation in the brain. Other patients respond to intravenous corticosteroids such as methylprednisolone .If corticosteroids fail to work, plasmapheresis or intravenous immunoglobulin therapy has been shown to produce improvement. Additional treatment is symptomatic and supportive.
31175	Treatment is aimed at alleviating symptoms. Some treatments include medications that boost brain serotonin; avoiding caffeine, alcohol, and sugar; slow increase in exercise; and managing activity and stress.
31177	Preventing constipation and encouraging good bowel habits are the primary goals of treating encompresis. Removing fecal impacts with the use of laxatives and sometimes enemas are the common procedures but stool softeners are also often prescribed. Also recommended are high-fiber diets, which includes frits, vegetables, whole grain products, and adequate fluid intake. The regimen will promote the passage of softer stools and minimize the discomfort associated with bowel movements. Giving the child flavored mineral oil would also allow oil to leak from the rectum. This treatment is not recommended long term because of interference with calcium and vitamin D absorption. Psychiatric evaluation may help identify the underlying cause of the condition in the absence of constipation. Children suffering from encopresis may also undergo psychotherapy to help them deal with the shame, guilt, or loss of self-esteem associated with the condition.
31178	Treatments to the disease are given to help slow down the deterioration process. This involves restrictive diets and drug medication. Severe conditions will require kidney replacement.
31179	If the defect is small or there are few or no symptoms, the condition may not require treatment. Surgical closure of the defect is only recommended if the atrial septal defect is large, the heart is enlarged, or symptoms occur. There is a relatively new procedure developed to close the defect without surgery. It involves the introduction of an ASD closure device into the heart through catheters. An example of this device is called Amplatzer. Only a tiny incision is done in the groin to introduce the catheters. The catheters are then advanced to the heart where the closure device is placed across the ASD. Not all ASD patients are eligible for this kind of procedure however.Q
31180	Treatment for endocardial fibroelastosis is the same as that of chronic cardiac failure. Also early and prolonged treatment with digoxin is suggested. Anticoagulation may required to be conducted in the possible presence of some thromboembolic complications. Cardiac transplantation are typically the only solution available for patients with end-stage or severe cases of the disease.
31181	Hospitalization for antibiotic therapy is usually required. Sometimes therapy with oral antibiotics at home is done. Antibiotic therapy are typically required to be continued for at least over month. Most of the patients will respond rapidly to the institution of the appropriate antibiotics, with more than 70 percent of patients becoming afebrile within a period of one week. In some highly unusual cases, surgery may be executed or prove to be necessary to be able to repair or replace the heart's damaged heart valve.
31182	Treatments of this disease administer very high dosage of antibiotics through the intravenous route to ensure maximum diffusion of the antibiotic into the vegetation from blood which are filling the different chambers of the heart. Antibiotics treatments are continuously administered for a long time ranging from two to six weeks. Fungal endocarditis, in the other hand, requires a specific anti-fungal treatment like amphotericin B. Removal of the valve through surgery is also necessary for some patients with special cases.
31183	Treatments for this diseases are dealt in a study called endocrinology. It includes administration of steroids, hormones, peptide and protein, amines and many other drugs that address hormonal imbalance and depends on what kind of endocrine disorder is being dealt with. Treatments for these diseases often take a long period of time.
31184	Treatments for endometrial cancer include surgery, radiation therapy, and chemotherapy. For stage 1 of the disease, a hysterectomy may be performed. The most recommended type of hysterectomy for this stage is bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy, or the removal of the tubes and ovaries. When surgeons want to look inside the abdominal area and remove some tissue for a biopsy, an abdominal hysterectomy is performed. For women who are on stage 1 and 2 of the disease, surgery combined with radiation therapy is usually done. In some cases, chemotherapy may be recommended especially among those with stage 3 and 4 disease.
31184	To treat endometrial cancer, surgical removal of the cancerous cell is the most common form of intervention. Most patients may have to undergo a hysterectomy, wherein the entire uterus is removed. Other modes of treatment for endometrial cancer include: radiation therapy, hormone therapy, and chemotherapy. As in most types of cancers, success of treatment decreases as the cancer progresses.
31185	Curettage or hysteroscopy are the most common type of surgery to remove polyps. However, polyps may sometimes be missed with curettage so to reduce the risk; the uterus can first be explored using grasping forceps at the beginning. A hysterectomy on the other hand, may be performed if cancerous cells are discovered.
31186	There is no known cure, at present time. Although in some patients menopause either natural or induced surgically will help abate the process. Other conservative treatments often try to address only the pain or infertility issues. Herbal treatments sometimes are effective as control agent of the disease. It has been suggested but still unproven that pregnancy and also childbirth can help stop endometriosis.
31187	Endomyocardial fibrosis is a very rare disorder so there has been no specific treatment established. Treatment usually consists of reducing the eosinophil levels and also by preventing even more damage to the organs. Corticosteroids are also administered like Prednisone. Antineoplastics are also useful for slowing down the production of eosinophil. Surgical treatment or therapy is not always done, although splenectomy helps reduce the pain brought about by the enlarged spleen, prosthetic heart valves are also used as replacement of the defective organic ones. Follow-up care is important for the patient's survival, so the patient should be regularly monitored for any signs of deterioration.
31188	There are different treatments administered for the enetpphobic patient. It may include any or a combination of any of the following : Local anesthetic injections, Ethyl Chloride Spray (and other freezing agents), Topical Anesthetic Creams, Jet Injectors, Iontophoresis, Behavioral Therapy , Laughing Gas, Inhalation General Anesthesia
31189	Treatment is done by physical and behavioral management. Diapers are used to keep protect the child from getting wet when he urinates during his sleep, while behavioral training is done by the family to help the child practice waking up in the middle of night to urinate.
31190	The goal of treatment is directed towards the underlying cause of the enlarged heart.
31191	Treatment of hepatogemaly depends on what's causing the condition. It it's alcohol abuse, the immediate solution is to stop. In cases of liver cirrhosis though, which is irreversible, the treatment can only prevent further damage and reduce complications.
31192	There is a wide variety of treatment for the condition since it is dependent on the signs and symptoms experienced by the affected individual. Most of the common methods of controlling moderate symptoms of prostate enlargement include the use of alpha blockers since they can relax the muscles around he bladder and make it easier to urinate.
31193	Treatment of the condition is usually targeted at the underlying cause or problem. Antibiotics for example may be sued to treat infections. Radiation therapy may be required in some cases to shrink the enlarged spleen. If the underlying cause can't be identified or treated and is causing serious complications, removing the spleen through surgery is the best option. However, the procedure needs serious consideration on the patient's part since spleen removal might increase the risk of contracting serious or life-threatening infections.
31194	If it's causing symptoms, that's the only time that goiter has to be treated. Treatment may include using radioactive iodine to shrink the gland, surgery or thyroidectomy to remove parts or the entire gland, and small doses of Lugol's iodine or potassium iodine solution if the goiter is due to iodine inefficiency.
31195	Antibiotic therapy is the most effective treatment for typhoid fever together with supportive therapy such as drinking fluids to prevent dehydration and eating healthy diet like non-bulky, high-calorie meals to replace nutrient loss.
31196	Treatment may not be required for mild cases of enterocele. Nonsurgical treatments or approached to treat the condition include vaginal pessary and estrogen therapy. Severe cases that cause discomfort to the affected individual may require surgery. This approach however, poses risks and needs careful consideration among women who still want to bear more children.
31197	Treatment for enterocolitis involves enteral feeding, and correction of electrolyte abnormalities. When the damages become severe, replacement of either intestine is done. Antibiotic treatment is also given to help reduce the perforations.
31198	Treatment is done by the surgical removal of the skin that affects the eye.
31198	Entropion can be treated by excising the excess skin of the outer eyelids.
31199	Bed-wetting can be outgrown by most children, but for those who are having a difficult time, doctors may recommend a more aggressive treatment which include moisture alarms, medications, and alternative therapies. Moisture alarms are small, battery operated devices. A pad is attached to a child's pajamas or bedding and when the pad senses wetness, the alarm goes off in time to awaken the child. The moisture alarm is highly effective but may take two weeks before any response will be observed and 12 weeks before the child can enjoy dry nights. Medications meanwhile include desmopressin acetate, imipramine, which is an antidepressant, and anticholinergic drugs such as oxybutynin or hyoscyamine. It is most effective to use combination drugs but it still does not cure the problems since the bed-wetting will resume when the medication is stopped.
31201	Once a person is diagnosed to have the condition, doctors help establish the cause for the condition. Treatments are then designed to address the specific cause of the condition. Some drugs like the cortocosteroids may also be administered
31202	Treatment for eosinophilic esophagitis consists of removing offending food, steroid puffers, antihistamines, H2-receptor blockers and proton pump inhibitors to reduce stomach reflux and decrease the swelling.
31203	Common treatments for Eosinophilic fasciitis include the administration of corticosteroid drugs like prednisone. Other medication alternatives like the hydroxychloroquine have also been found to be effective.
31204	The most common and most widely used treatment for this disease is the use of Corticosteroid drugs. There is no known appropriate duration of the treatment and relapses often times cause the necessity of a long term treatment. Some other steroid sparing agents like sodium cromoglycate which is a known stabilizer of cell (mast) membranes, ketotifen, and montelukast have also been proposed to be used which centers around an allergic hypothesis with different often mixed results. A programmed diet aimed for elimination of the disease may also be successful if there are only limited food allergies identified by the physician.
31205	Often times, lesions in the bones resolve slowly so it does not require any treatment not if they cause some symptoms. Curettage can provide a diagnostic biopsy material and is curative. When dealing with large or bigger lesions, they may need bone grafts. Injection of steroids in high dosages is also an option, this also tends to result in a faster curing of the lesion. A typical prescribed steroid dose is at 125 mg of methylprednisolone. Chemotherapy or the use of radiation therapy is not often indicated. Although steroids may not be as effective with multiple lesions. When used with chemotherapy, physicians often prescribe prednisolone and vinblastine. XRT treatment is only used when a symptpomatic lesion is locared in an inaccessible region like the pelvus, spine, or skull. Dose usually given is between 500 to 1000 rads.
31206	Treatments that are mentioned in different sources for Neuroectodermal tumors primitive includes different clinical testings and procedures like Chemotherapy, therapy using the radiation, or surgery.
31207	Ependymoma, which are differentiated properly, is usually treated by a radiation therapy only. Although other ependymomas may require a total removal by means of a surgery. Yhose that are not or can't be removed totally are also require to undergo radiation therapies. Malignant tumor varieties or the malignant ependymoma and also the ependymoblastoma, are usually treated with treatments also applied to treat medulloblastoma but success is much less favorable. Malignant ependymomas may also be treated with any combination of therapies like radiation and chemotherapy. Ependymoblastomas that occur in children younger than 5 years old or even infants may have risks of spreading through the cerebrospinal fluid and is likely to require use of a radiation therapy.
31208	Most of the patients with Epicondylitis respond well to conservative measures and does not require any surgery. Patients who still do not show any signs of improvement until 6 months of conservative therapy including administration of corticosteroid injections are then subjected to surgery.
31209	There is no definitive therapy for Epidermodysplasia. Treatment of this condition includes administration of preventive measures. The most important treatment to take note is definitely no sun exposure and protection by using sun blocks which usually begins right after the diagnosis is made. Therapies that does not involve surgical procedures are administered for managing skin cancers. For advanced carcinomas related to HPV, experimental therapy will involve combination treatments of interferon alpha or cholecalciferol analogues and 13-cis retinoic acid. Treatment involved for numerous localized malignant lesions, an autotransplantation of skin tissues from unaffected area of the skin has been proven to be successful in preventing even more growth of cancers. Patients should avoid exposures to UV-B, UV-A, and x-ray irradiation as the radiation therapy often times promote the growing back of even more aggressive skin cancers.
31210	There are several methods used for the treatment of Epidermoid carcinoma of the head and the neck. It usually includes chemotherapy, surgery, radiotherapy, and any combinations of these different therapies. There are also new treatments aimed to investigate the condition and it includes immunotherapy and therapy involving the genes. There are also factors that may influence what choice of treatment to administer for the patient. These are the stage, the site, and the grade of the primary tumor. The age of the patient, and his/her general medical condition also affects the decision.
31211	Cosmetic and functional problems that are not caused by cysts are usually left alone, but when ruptured, inflamed or infected, there are also existing treatment options. It can be through minimal excision where it removes the whole cyst wall but will cause minimal if there is scarring. Another would be through corticosteroid injections to help reduce the inflammation of the uninfected epidermoid cyst. Other treatments include total excision, incision and drainage and through lasers.
31212	Treatments for Epidermolysis bullosa includes some medical care which are mostly preventive and supportive. Blisters are punctured with sterile needle to drain the liquid. Open wounds are dressed up to avoid infection. Daily application of topical ointments with polymyxin, silver sulfadiazine and bacitracin. Surgical procedures are done to correct deformities. Frequent consultations to the attending physician is also required to monitor the condition. Diet and activities are also especially modified for the patients.
31213	Treatment for Epidermolytic hyperkeratosis includes administration of oral retinoids which have been proven to be effective like acitretin, isotretinoin, and etretinate. Gene therapies are also considered the only true therapy for the sufferers.
31214	Patients experiencing pain in the testicle or scrotum require immediate evaluation to identify and also treat the potential cases of any testicular torsion quickly. PTreatments include antibiotic therapy, analgesicsto control the pain, supportive care including scrotal support and elevation, ice pack application, and blocking of the spermatic cord.
31215	Epidurial hematoma often requires surgery but the type varies on the characteristics of the hematoma. First option is called perforation, which is performed if the blood is localized and is not clotting excessively. It is done by creating a hole through the skull and removing liquid by suction. Second is craniotomy, where a section of the skull is opened to remove the large hematoma.
31216	Treatment of epiglottitis requires urgent endotracheal intubation in order to protect the trachea. When intubation fails, tracheotomy is performed. Surgical procedures are then followed by antibiotic treatments such as ceftriaxone and chloramphenicol.
31217	Epilepsy is commonly controlled through a designed medication. This cannot however cure the disorder. Surgery may also be considered in most of the difficult cases.
31219	The treatment of recurrent cases of this condition is primarily aimed at preventing injuries caused by any accident that may occur during attacks. For patients suffering frequent seizures, treatments includes preventing seizures from interfering with school and other activities of his/her daily life. Other treatments include medications with anticonvulsant drugs.
31220	The condition doesn't need treatment. Eye drops meanwhile keep the eye clean and moistened, which is of great help.
31220	The condition doesn't need treatment. Eye drops meanwhile keep the eye clean and moistened, which is of great help.
31221	There is no specified treatment for the condition.
31222	Treatments of this condition may include medications to control symtoms like acetaminophen or paracetamol, valacyclovir, and non-steroidal anti-inflamatory drugs,
31223	Treatments of Equinophobia may include subjecting the patient to a gradual exposure to the animal or the horse. Certain medications can also be administered to control the patient's reaction towards their fear. Psychiatrists are also very helpful in helping the patient's overcome what they call their fears.
31224	In some rare cases, babies will recover on their own while some may really require an intevention of a specialist. A pediatric neurosurgery is commonly required in repairing an avulsion fracture. Lesions brought about by the fracture will just heal over time. The proper function of the affected part then return. Physiotherapeutic care is also often applied to patients for muscle usage regaining.
31225	There are various treatment options to take to treat Erdheim-Chester syndrome. It includes surgical debulking, administration of high dose of corticosteroids, cycloporine, interferon, chemotherapy, and radiation therapy.
31226	Admitting oneself to psychiatric treatment will help a lot in the recovery of a patient from the condition. And socializing more intimately can help also in the progress of a patient.
31227	The treatment depends on the severity if the disease, oral or intravenous antibiotics, using penicillins. If the patient is allergiy with penicillin patient can take clindamycin or erythromycin.
31228	Topical and oral antibiotics are the prescribed treatments for the disease.
31229	The disease can now be effectively treated by antibiotics, particularly by rifampin, dapsone and clofazimine. However, multiple drug therapy can lead to side-effects, thus anti-inflammatory drugs are as well administered once inflammation due to treatment occurs. The disfigurement of the affected parts of the body can no longer be cured.
31230	Sufficient parvovirus treatment generally consists of self-care steps at home for non-complicated parvovirus infection because the rash itself does not need treatment. You may need to be hospitalized and receive blood transfusions of you have severe anemia or you may receive antibodies (via immune globulin) if you have a weakened immune system to treat the infection. Your doctor may monitor possible effects on your baby if you're pregnant and develop parvovirus infection. Medications and blood transfusions may serve as treatments if your baby has anemia, edema or congestive heart failure.
31231	The common cause of this disease is herpes simples bacterial infection and drugs reaction such as phenytoin an anti psychotic drug, barbiturates an emergency drugs, allopurinol for gout arthritis and penicillin an antibiotic.
31232	The condition is managed through recognizing and treating the presence of any causal condition. Concurrently, treatment is focused toward the reddened skin. Treatments include anti-inflammatory medications, and colchicine is at times used to effectively reduce swelling.
31233	In treating erythrasma once its diagnosis is established, the doctor may prescribe oral antibiotics such as erythromycin or clarithromycin, Whitfield's ointment, topical antibiotic lotions such as clindamycin, or aluminum chloride solution to inhibit sweating and moisture.
31234	It is diagnosed initially through skin biopsy, through skin biopsy it identify the main cause of the skin disorder. A blood smear examination and a patch testing ( if the eruption can be cleared) also help identify the skin disorder.
31235	The best method of treatment for primary erythromelalgia is by avoiding the known factors that triggers attacks like alcohol consumption, heat, and over-exertion. A cool environment is helpful for the patient in guarding against common symptoms.
31236	The treatment of secondary erythromelalgia, is to treat the underlying primary disorder. While primary erythromelalgia interventions are to avoid the factors that can triggers the disease, such as heat, over-exertion and alcohol consumption, cold environment and caffeine intake. Aspirin may help minimize symptoms of erythromelalgia.
31237	Treatment of Erythroplakia will mostly involve biopsy of the swell or the lesion to determine the extent of the dysplasia. A surgical intervention via a somplete excision of the swell or the lesion is also advised at some cases depending mostly on the histopathology found in the result of the biopsy. However, recurrence or regrowth of the Erythroplakia, even in rare cases, is very common. Long-term monitoring of the condition is often required and needed.
31238	There is no known cure for this condition, however, management of the symptoms can be done usually by simply limiting sun exposure. Wearing protective clothing can also be very helpful. But because the photosensitivity is cause by light in the visible spectrum, most sunscreens except substances that reflects light like zinc oxide are not so much use. Some people decrease sun sensitivity by getting a daily doses of beta carotene while other people gradually build up a protective layer of melanin through a regular exposure for only short time to the ultraviolet rays of the sun. In very severe cases, patients are at times surgicaly treated with liver transplants.
31239	There is no cure for the disease. Symptoms can only be controlled by limiting exposure to sunlight. Wearing protective clothing is also helpful. Others take a daily dose of beta-carotene to lower their sensitivity to sunlight.
31240	There is no specific treatment necessary to treat infection, except drinking lots of water and fluids to replenish fluid loss during diarrhea bouts in order to prevent diarrhea. Medications to stop diarrhea should not be taken because it may inhibit the bacteria to get out of the intestine and out of the body.
31241	Treatments for esophageal atresia vary widely depending on the extent of severity of the condition. Considered to be the most effective and often immediately administered treatment in most of the cases is through a surgical intervention or repair by surgery aimed at closing the fistula and then reconnecting togethere both ends of the esophagus. Surgical method may not be possible in all cases because of the very lengthy gap in between the upper and the lower segments of the esophagus making it too long to connect. Gastronomy then is performed in such case, by inserting tube thus allowing food to into the stomach. Often an esophagostomy in the cervix is also done. This is to allow the swallowed saliva to drain out through a hole in the neck. Within a period, esophagus may then be repaired through using a segment of the bowel.
31242	The goal of treatment is to eliminate the cancer completely. Treatment is usually based on origin, classification, location and stage of the esophageal cancer. There are various combinations of surgery, chemotherapy and radiation that is more effective than a single course of treatment.
31243	Treatments involved in esophageal disorders vary and is specific to the disorder. Treatments may include surgical interventions or administration of medications. Although in most cases surgery is always considered as the best treatment.
31244	No major treatments are given since the disease can resolve on its own; surgical treatments however are rarely performed.
31245	Small or localized Esophageal tumors are often treated via surgical intervention with the intention to cure while larger esophageal tumors are not to be operated at so it cannot be cured although growth of the tumors can be delayed through constant therapies like chemotherapy or radiotherapy. Or it can be through a combination of the both therapies. There are even instances when a large tumor can become operable through the help of the radio and chemo therapy.
31247	Among the methods involved in treating esophageal spasms include managing any underlying condition, behavior modification, biofeedback, taking medications such as muscle relaxants and tricyclic antidepressants, and surgery. Rare cases may require either myotomy or esophagectomy.
31248	The illness is treated by antibiotics, if it is caused by esophagitis. Dilation of the stricture can also be done to cure the inflammation. Other treatments are given based on the cause of the disease.
31249	Peptic ulcer treatments are aimed at killing the bacteria and reducing the level of acid in the digestive system. Medications are needed to accomplish the two and it includes the use of antibiotics, acid blockers, antacids, proton pump inhibitors, and cytoprotective agents.
31250	Immediate treatments for bleeding due to esophageal varices include stopping the loss of blood, appropriate using of antibiotics in cases of infection. Endoscopy is also considered a very effective treatment. It may be done through different approaches like ligation of the esophageal varices or banding or can be done by sclerotherapy. Balloon tamponades are also applied in cases of refractory bleeding.
31252	Prognosis for each specific esotrope depends mostly on the origin and the classification of the esotropic condition they are suffering from. But generally, management of the disorder take certain steps or courses like (1) Identifying and treating any underlying condition, (2) Prescription of the use of any glasses is required and also allowing patient's some time to become comfortable with them. (3) The use of occlusion in treating amblyopia, and (4) the very appropriate, orthoptic exercises that can be used in an attempt to restore binocularity.
31253	It can be prevent through Lifestyle modification like regular exercise , low salt diet, have a DASH diet, stop tobacco use and alcohol consumption. Stress reducing therapy. Medications used to decrease hypertension are ACE inhibitors, Angiotensin II receptor antagonists, Alpha blockers, Beta blockers, Calcium channel blockers, Direct renin inhibitors, and Diuretics
31254	The disorder can be treated with multi-drug medications that reduce the onset of inflammation. NSAIDs are used to improve one's condition, while plasmapheresis is performed to treat severe cases.
31255	To treat this disease, the main cause must be treated. For thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura it is treated by removing of antibodies. While treatments for ITP includes Prednisone and other corticosteroids, Intravenous gamma globulin, Splenectomy, Danazol, Rituximab and AMG 531. For heparin-induced thrombocytopenia and thrombosis (HITT) it is advisable to discontinue of heparin but with cautious. And for genetically cause thrombocytopenia, bone marrow or Stem Cell Transplant is the only cure.
31256	Patient does not require treatment but those who are high risk of thrombosis and bleeding requires immediate care. For high platelet count, it can be reduce through using of hydroxyurea (also known as hydroxycarbamide), interferon-a or anagrelide as a superior treatment it has low risk of thrombosis. Low-dose aspirin is given as an initial treatment also help to reduce platelet count. In giving this medication, it is important to monitor for increased bleeding. Another procedure done is platelet apheresis to remove platelet directly from the blood.
31257	The condition isn't a sign of a more serious disease which is most cases of essential tremor don't need treatment. Reassurance and lifestyle changes including plenty of rest, avoiding stressful situations and stimulants such as caffeine may ease the tremors. Some medications like beta blockers, anti seizure medications tranquilizers and botolinum toxin type A (botox) injections are used.
31258	There is no specific treatment of ethylmalonic aciduria found. But there are some interventions that help possible treatment of the disorder, this may include low protein and high carbohydrate diet, intravenous fluids therapy, vitamin supplementation inrake, and tube feeding.
31259	First treatment in patient with evan's disease is glucocorticoid corticosteroids or intravenous immunoglobulin, must be given immediately especially for children with autoimmune hemolytic anemia. Immunosuppressive drugs are used, or in combination with glucocorticoid corticosteroids or intravenous immunoglobulin if the initial treatment relapse. A surgical procedure called splenectomy is also used but has short term benefit to the patient. For a permanent cure the stem cell transplantation (SCT) is done to the patient.
31260	Abnormal and immature cells in the bone can be treated through multidrug chemotherapy and or radiation. Surgery or removing of the affected site or organ can also be helpful. Combination of chemotherapy or radiation and surgery are commonly done to prevent metastasis.
31261	Hyperhidrosis can be treated by topical an electrochemical therapies, as well as local injection of neuromuscular blockers.
31262	Exhibitionism can be treated via therapy and counseling, as well as behavioral corrections.
31263	Exogenous Lipoid pneumonia is treated with antibiotics like penicillin, and erythromycin. corticosteroids or anti inflammatory medications and intravenous immunoglobulins, just like antibiotics it identify foreign objects in the body.
31264	The treatment of this disease is depending on the cause. commonly prevent inflammation helps minimize exopthalmus. Closing the eyes with plaster help prevents dryness of cornea and its complication.
31265	HME is currently has no cure. But there are palliative treatment for the patient so that they can perform their ADL like Surgery of the bone, to prevent disalignment. Physical therapy and pain management to minimize the pain agony of the patient.
31267	Clomipramine has been used for some in patients, who have this kind of disorder have experienced relief of the symptoms.
31268	XDR-TB can be treated by the use of rare, special medications, but it can also be prevented by taking the vaccine called Bacille Calmette-Guerin (BCG). It is a vaccine used to prevent TB among children.
31269	The treatment for the condition is obvious and that is removing the headwear that is causing the pressure. It is rarely needed for affected persons to seek further treatment.
31270	An otoscope is used to examine the inside of the ear. The doctor may also culture a sample to determine if the cause of the infection is bacteria or fungi.
31272	The main treatment for extradural hematoma is by surgically removing the mass that causes pressure on the brain. The treatment is the same with other kinds of hematomas. Neurosurgical treatment also required to decompress the hematoma and stop the bleeding.
31273	There is no exact treatment for the disorder; it can only be prevented by regulating hyponatremia correction. The correction should not go beyond 1mEq/L per hour.
31274	Treatment for bladder extrophy involves a rather complex surgical repair of bladder through a staged procedure. This includes closure of the abdominal and posterior walls, bladder neck reconstruction, and urethral closure.
31275	The main forms of treatment for eye cancers are laser therapy, plaque therapy and radiotherapy. Other surgical procedures are done to remove eye contents in order to eliminating the tumors.
31276	Most cases of eye floaters do not require treatment. Doctors may suggest a surgical procedure if the floaters are numerous and interferes with the vision. The surgery involves a hollow needle to withdraw the vitreous from the eye the vitreous is replaced with saltwater solution. The procedure however may not remove all the floaters and can cause retinal detachment and cataract.
31277	The main factors considered when treating melanoma are the location and size of the melanoma. Also considered is the patient's overall health. Eye melanoma is very rare that it is suggested to seek the advice of an experienced doctor or to seek a second opinion. The treatments designed to get rid of a melanoma will often cause some loss of vision. Eye cancers are fatal and in some cases, treatment is needed even if it means loss of vision or loss of the eye. Depending on the size and the location, surgery can be the only treatment needed to remove the melanoma. Other cases may be treated using radiation therapy or radiation combined with infrared laser therapy.
31278	Eye melanoma cancer can be treated using surgery to remove the melanoma. Depending on the location and/or severity of the melanoma, surgical options available for affected patients are: iridectomy (in which only a part of the iris is removed), iridotrabeculectomy (in which part of the iris plus surrounding tissue are removed), iridocyclectomy (in which part of the iris plus ciliary body are removed), choroidectomy (in which part of the choroids is removed), and enucleation (in which the entire eye is removed).
31280	Treatment can be done by applying a warm compress to soften the hardened oil deposits. Topical antibiotics are also available, but for severe cases, surgical excision is required. Eye cysts do resolve after a few weeks.
31281	Eyelid inflammation can be difficult to treat and the best way to counter it is to control signs and symptoms and prevent complications. Good hygiene such as regular cleaning of the area. If the condition doesn't improve doctors may prescribe eyedrops containing antibiotics and steroids.
31282	Treatment concentrates on effectively slowing the disease's progression. Pain on the feet and hands are usually administered with anticonvulsants such as carbamazepine and phenytoin. Metoclopramide is also used to treat gastrointestinal hyperactivity. Kidney treatments include transplants and dialysis.
31283	Facet degeneration can be treated with NSAIDs and heat pack compressions to relieve muscle spasms and back pain.
31284	Treatment is usually aimed at relieving the symptoms. Using corcosteroids or antiviral medication may reduce swelling and relieve pressure of the facial nerve. Lubricating eye drops or eye ointments to protect the eye may also be recommended if the eyes cannot be closed completely. An eye patch may also be worn when sleeping.
31285	Patients can expect a big possibility of gaining full recovery. The primary medication for facial paralysis includes steroids such as methylprednisolone or prednisone to effectively reduce the inflammation within the facial nerve as well ass hasten the recovery period. Other medications also include antiviral agents and surgical procedures to relieve pressure.
31286	There is no available treatment yet for the disorder.
31287	There are currently no existing approved therapies to treat facioscapulohumeral muscular dystrophy. Occupational therapies are believed to considerably help patients cope with the said disease.
31288	People with Munchausen syndrome actively seeks treatment for the various symptoms he or she creates. However, they are often unwilling to seek treatment for the syndrome itself. Just like other factitious disorders, the syndrome primarily requires psychotherapy, which focuses on changing the thinking and behavior of the person.
31289	For patients who experience moderate bleeding can be treated with fresh frozen plasma, which can correct the prothrombin. Another treatment approach includes the use of Prothrombin complex concentrates (PCCs).
31290	The deficiency can temporarily be corrected through the administration of fresh plasma infusions, given every day during bleeding episodes or following surgery.
31291	If there is development of blood clots, treatment can include anticoagulant or anti-clotting medicines such as Coumadin or warfarin.
31292	Treatment may include medical care and surgical care, as well as choosing activities. Medications can include Bebulin VH, Factor IX Complex, and Profilnine SD.
31293	Generally, scrapes and small cuts are managed with usual first-aid. Affected individuals can utilize non-blood product, known as desmopressin acetate, for treating small bleeds. Deep cuts, like those in the muscles and joints, need more complex management. Other treatments include replacing the clotting factor that's missing, as well as prophylaxis as the best therapy for a child with severe hemophilia.
31294	This bleeding disorder is treated by getting fresh frozen plasma into one's blood during acute or sudden episodes, or prior to surgery. If the cause of the disorder is amyloidosis, surgery is performed to remove one's spleen.
31295	Treatment isn't typically necessary, except when it's in connection to operations in individuals who aren't aware that they have the deficiency. In such cases, recombinant factor XI or fresh frozen plasma can be used, however, only when it's necessary. Four treatments re used to prevent or control bleeding in affected individuals, including FFP or fresh frozen plasma, factor XI concentrates, fibrin glue, and antifibrinolytic drugs.
31296	Treatments include the supplementation of fresh frozen plasma or cryoprecipitate. Factor XIII concentrate has also been used to replace FXIII and treating bleeding. Prophylaxis is the choice for treatment strategy because FXIII levels that are above three to five percent are typically sufficient to stop spontaneous bleeding. Prophylactic therapy provides sufficient plasma levels in the majority of patients.
31297	No cure or a standard procedure of treatment has been found for the disease. Treatments address the symptoms of affected individuals on a case-to-case basis. Some reports suggest that lithium carbonate or haloperidol can help alleviate psychotic symptoms.
31298	Treatment is focused on avoidance of triggers, restoring blood flow to the brain during an impending episode, and interrupting or preventing the pathophysiologic mechanisms.
31299	Flat feet that that are not painful can be left untreated. For those experiencing pain, an orthotic or an arch supporting insert in the shoe can bring relief. If initial treatments do not improve the pain, surgery may be necessary to either resect the fused bone or actually completely fuse several bones in a corrected position. Surgery in advanced cases entails cleaning and repairing the tendon. It may also mean fusing some of the joints of the foot in a corrected position in very advanced cases.
31300	Treatment for a fallen bladder may not be necessary for mild cystocele cases. However, in severe cases, one may need surgery. Physicians only recommend patients having mild cases to avoiding lifting heavy objects or any activity that could strain the muscles more. A pessary is also given in mild cases. This is a device installed in the vagina to help hold the bladder. Surgeries are done for serious cases aimed at moving and keeping the bladder at its normal position.
31301	Treatment of the condition for the majority of infants involves a surgery known as intracardiac repair. The surgery is usually done during an infant's first year. Ongoing care is required after surgery. The doctor can also recommend a limit in the child's activities, as well as antibiotics when having dental procedures to stop infections that can cause swelling of the heart's lining.
31302	Because colorectal cancer is sure in affected individuals, the majority of patients opt for optional colon removal before the cancer develops. However, these patients will need long-term follow-up for other cancer developments.
31303	Up until the 90s, there was never any effective treatment method for the various symptoms of familial amyloid polyneuropathy. The 90s ushered in a promising cure when physicians made use of liver transplantation in addressing the problems associated with the disease.
31304	Treatment for the disease includes surgical reduction of the lungs. Patients are likewise advised to avoid smoking.
31305	Colchicine has been found out to be an effective medium in preventing episodes of the condition. Patients who have developed renal failure may go through hemodialysis. Peritoneal dialysis is said to heighten the occurrence of the attacks. Those who are experiencing long-term myalgia that comes with pain and fever may be treated with prednisone.
31306	There is no cure for Familial paroxysmal peritonitis. A drugs called colchicine however, has been proven to reduce inflammation of the body. Before said drug was developed, patients were required to undergo a dialysis or kidney transplantation. The former is done to remove wastes from the blood. Nowadays the two procedures are only recommended to those who do not adhere to therapy or cannot tolerate colchicines.
31307	Methods of treating familial periodic paralysis may involve oral supplementation of potassium chloride for hypos, or staying away from potassium for hypers. OTher options include the use of inhibitors like carbonic anhydrase, use of thiazide diuretics, and changes in lifestyle.
31308	Patients of this disease are almost always advised to undergo surgical removal of their lower intestine as an effective means of treating familial polyposis. The type of surgical removal varies, and the choice would depend on the severity of the condition.
31310	The replacement of substances in the urine primarily fluid and bicarbonate is the main treatment for Fanconi syndrome in children.
31311	Treatment of children with Fanconi syndrome mainly consists of replacement of substances lost in the urine, primarily fluid and bicarbonate.
31313	The specific treatment for Farber disease is not yet known. To ease the pain, Corticosteroids may be prescribed. Patients who have granulomas with small or no lung or nervous system complications may be improved through bone marrow transplants. For older patients granulomas are surgically removed or decreased.
31314	Although there are no dietary restrictions necessary, patients with Farmer's lung may be advised to lessen their activities. The administration of systemic corticosteroid is considered to be the primary method of treatment for this condition.
31315	Treatment of farsightedness is aimed at helping to focus light on the retina using corrective lenses or refractive surgery. Most young people do not need corrective lenses since they still have the ability to focus on nearby objects. Corrective lenses counteract the decreased curvature of the cornea or the smaller size of the eye. Corrective lenses include eyeglasses and contact lenses. Refractive surgery meanwhile include Laser-assisted in-situ keratomileusis (LASIK), Laser-assisted subepithelial keratectomy (LASEK), Photorefractive keratectomy (PRK), and Conductive keratoplasty (CK). These surgeries correct farsightedness by reshaping the curvature of the cornea.
31316	Fasciculations are treated with high-magnesium diets and supplements, since insufficient magnesium causes muscle twitches. Foods rich in magnesium include almonds, peanuts and bananas. Atropine sulfate with Suxamethonium chloride can also decrease fasciculations.
31317	Bithionol is considered to be the most efficient treatment option for this condition. HOwever, Praziquantel is said to be safe as well, although it is not believed to be as effective.
31318	There has been no known cure for the disease. Hope rests on the continuing gene therapy, which has been unsuccessful so far. Sleeping pills give negative effects, typically bringing come faster. While it's presently impossible to reverse underlying illness, there's some proof that treatment methods focusing on symptoms may better quality of life.
31319	Fatigue from cancer can be reduced via proper diet and exercise.
31320	There's no surgical or medical treatment for fatty liver; however, there are a few steps one can take to reverse the damage or prevent the condition. One must lose weight in a safe and proper manner, which typically means taking off not more than two pounds every week. Lower the triglycerides through medication or diet, or both. Avoid alcohol, eat healthy, increase physical activity, and have regular checkups.
31321	The most important cure to favism is prevention. Avoid the drugs and foods that may generate hemolysis. Vaccination against some pathogens are also helpful. For severe cases of hemolysis, blood transfusion may be required. Splenectomy can also bring in some benefits to patients suffering from favism.
31322	Currently, no cure or standard treatments have been found for the disease. However, its early detection provides an optimal situation wherein doctors can devise a treatment plan for the condition.
31325	Increases water intake is the general form of medication. Fiber supplements are also given to help dissolve digested food so defecation would no longer be difficult. Eating foods that are high in fiber are also recommended.
31326	Dietary change: the doctor will recommend a diet that aids in gaining good stool consistency. Medications: anti-diarrheal drugs, laxatives, stool softeners Bowel training: learning to go to the toilet at a particular time of the day Stool impaction treatment: the doctor inserts two fingers into the rectum to split impacted stool Surgical options if other treatments did not work. Sacral nerve stimulation
31326	Treatment depends on the cause of the condition, which may include dietary changes, medications, special exercises, and surgery. Surgical options include sphincteroplasty, operations to treat rectal prolapse, rectocele, or hemorrhoids, sphincter replacement, sphincter repair, and colostomy.
31327	Feer disease can be treated by chelation therapy. Vitamin C supplements are also taken to prevent one from further problems caused by the toxin
31328	No cure or standard treatment has been found for the syndrome. However, mutation-specific tests in family members, as well as prenatal diagnosis in 'at-risk pregnancies' is obtainable once the mutations in affected individuals has been recognized.
31329	To treat the disease relies on the symptoms demonstrated by the patient. Drugs that fight hallucinations and dementia are administered to persons affected by the disease. Affected animals meanwhile are isolated and are subject to quarantine procedures to prevent the spread of the disease.
31330	Treatment of the illness can be done by managing the effects of the present symptoms. Severe cases meanwhile require injections of granulocyte stimulating factor to increase WBC count.
31331	There is no specific treatment for female carrier ALD; genetic counseling is rather advised to parents.
31332	The cause of the infertility determines the type of treatment a women has to undergo. Age and the length of infertility are also factors to be considered. Restoring fertility by means of medication or surgery or assisting in reproduction are the primary goals of treatment. In fertility restoration, the use of fertility drugs to regulate or induce ovulation is the main treatment. For abnormal LH and FSH, fertility drugs such as Clomiphene citrate, Gonadotropins, Metformin, and Aromatase inhibitors are used. Surgical procedures to correct problems or improve female fertility include tissue removal, tubal reversal surgery, and tubal surgeries. In reproductive assistance, the most popular and highly effective technique it In vitro fertilization (IVF).
31333	There is no treatment available for the disease.
31334	Treatment for the disorder includes hormone therapy, surgery, counseling, and support.
31335	Most women with sexual problems usually benefit from a combined treatment approach. Though in some cases, specific medical solutions are given such as the use of vaginal estrogen cream or switching from one antidepressant to another. Nonmedical treatment includes talking or discussing things with sex therapists or counselors. The partner may also be required to attend.
31336	Feminisation can be treated by increased androgen and testosterone inducing medications. Acquired feminisation can be managed via counseling.
31337	There's no treatment for fetal alcohol syndrome. Some defects like heart abnormalities require surgery and learning problems and child's behavior needs parent counseling and special services from school.
31338	There has been no cure or standard treatment found for the disorder. Treatment is based on prevention and non-exposure to diethylstilbestrol-related intakes during pregnancy, particularly during its first trimester.
31339	There is no found treatment yet for the disease.
31340	The safe usage of phenytoin during pregnancy hasn't been established, and so avoiding the intake of the medication while pregnant is highly significant. No standard treatment has been found for the syndrome, and treatment will vary depending on severity and type of symptoms.
31341	There's no standard treatment for the syndrome, but prevention in pregnant women is significant. Avoiding exposure to methyl mercury or intake of methlymercury contaminated food while pregnant may prevent the syndrome.
31342	Thalomide is known as an immunomodulant and anti-inflamamtory medication that is primarily used to treat lupus erythematosus, arthritis, sarcoidosis, AIDS-related wasting disease and rheumatoid. Women who are under this medication are usually required to take two forms of birth controls and monthly pregnancy tests.
31343	Teartment for fetal warfarin syndrome includes general avoidance to drugs that are known to enhance bleeding as well as increase metabolism of the anticoagulant drug. Vitamin K prophylactically should also not be administered. The rapid administration of the activated carbon may also be feasible.
31345	Treating a fever is not generally necessarily. Having fever is an indication that there is something wrong with our body and it can be used as a gauge of effectiveness of treating the underlying cause of fever. Antipyretics such as ibuprofen or acetaminophen are used to lower than the body temperature.
31346	Fever blisters usually clear up within 7 to 10 days without treatment. Relieving symptoms may be done using topical symptomatic treatments such as topical lidocaine or benzyl alcohol. Applying antiviral medication early on may modestly shorten the duration of cold sores and decrease the pain.
31347	There is no exact treatment available for the disease. Those who are suffering from mental retardation may undergo special education programs.
31348	For this condition there is no treatment. Aspiration of a fine needle draining fluid from the larger cysts, monitoring caffeine and fat intake, wearing well supportive bra may help ease the symptoms.
31349	Treatment for fibrodysplasia ossificans progressive primarily involves avoiding aggravators as well as slows the progression of the disease and improving the quality of life of the patients. Systemic steroids are usually administered during some acute flare-ups.
31350	Benign fibromas can be left alone or can be removed depending upon one's preference. It is ideal to get the opinion of your physician. One's doctor should also check the fibroma and determine whether it will be necessary to remove the fibroma or not. If one should decide to remove this, it will only be an outpatient procedure.
31351	Treatment for fibromatosis includes the execution of prompt radical excision with some radiation and margin. Despite some local aggressive and infiltrative and behavior of these tumors, mortality is minimal to nonexistent.
31352	There are presently no known curative therapies for Fibromuscular dysplasia. However the good thing is FMD is typically benign when its asymptomatic.
31353	Medications are mainly administered to reduce pain as well as improve sleep of patients. This typically includes analgesics, antidepressants, muscle relaxants, and pregbalin.
31354	The severity of the symptoms is the basis in treating valley fever. The age, desire for future pregnancies, general health, and characteristics of the fibroids are also considered when choosing treatment options. In some cases, regular pelvic exams or ultrasounds may be the only intervention required of the patient. For women experiencing cramps or menstrual pains, nonsteroidal inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) such as ibuprofen or naprosyn may be recommended. Birth control pills are also prescribed to control heavy periods since it would prevent the fibroids from growing. Hormonal therapy may be required in some women, which includes using injectables such Depo Leuprolide. Said type of drugs shrinks the fibroids and reduces the production of estrogen and progesterone. Outpatient surgical procedures such as hysteroscopic resection of fibroids may needed by women with fibroids growing inside the uterine cavity.
31355	Treatments for fibrosarcoma include radiation as well as chemotherapy, which are known to considerably improve local control. Surgical procedure may also be performed in some cases.
31356	For the fibrosis disease, most medication address the symptoms. No permanent cure is yet found for this.
31357	This bone deformity can be best diagnosed using x-ray as well as to closely monitor the progression every 6 months. If the condition does not progress, patients are not usually required any form of treatment. For severe and progressive fibrous dysplasia, medications usually include alendronate and bisphosphonates, known agents that can effectively inhibit bone breakdown. Surgical procedures may also be performed to correct bone deformities, fix a fracture or removed an affected area of the bone.
31358	Home self care steps treatment can be done only if there is no other existing disease. Infection with fifth disease and having severe anemia or have a weakened immune system at the same time requires hospitalization and further treatment.
31359	Medications should be administered right after the infection. Patients are usually given Florocid injections to help effectively combat infection. This medical condition is treatable provided it is not on its severe stage. Amputation may also be considered an option.
31360	Filovirus can be treated with an antivirus vaccine that triggers an immense function of T-lymphocytes to fight the disease. Blood transfusion is also held to replace lost blood. `
31361	A displaced fracture may require a process called reduction, in which the doctor manipulate the pieces back into their proper positions before applying a splint. A closed fracture meanwhile will have the doctor send the patient home with a splint and directions to rest and apply ice to the hand. Fractures that are more serious may have the affected individual admitted to the hospital for immediate medical attention.
31363	No definitive medication or therapy is required. If it is symptomatic, the patients are usually encouraged to constantly brush the tongue's dorsum to ensure the debris that may possible serve as irritant may be properly eliminated that may serve as an irritant. Other than that, there are no specific treatments available for fissured tongues.
31364	Fistulas can be treated by surgical closure. The affected cavities or passages have to be restructured to prevent further inflammation to take place.
31364	Fistulas can be treated by surgical closure. The affected cavities or passages have to be restructured to prevent further inflammation to take place.
31365	Medications include antibiotics as part of the therapy, as well as the other treatments for PID. Condition may allow out-patient setting unless when pregnancy, suffering from difficulty in oral intake, and tubo-ovarian abscess. Surgical procedures will involve laparoscopy.
31366	There are no available treatments to offer cure for this disorder mainly because of limited number of cases to study and scarce studies relating to the medical condition have been conducted.
31368	If a person with flatfeet does not experience pain, it can be left untreated. An orthotic or an arch supporting insert in the shoe meanwhile can bring relief to those with painful flatfeet. If initial treatments do not improve the pain, surgery may be necessary to either resect the fused bone or actually completely fuse several bones in a corrected position. Surgery in advanced cases entails cleaning and repairing the tendon. It may also mean fusing some of the joints of the foot in a corrected position in very advanced cases.
31369	Treating the underlying condition besides from the flatus itself can give relief to symptoms. Other treatments like diet by cutting of fried and fatty foods and changes in lifestyle can bring positive outcomes.
31370	There is no available cure for victims of Flavimonas oryzihabitan is available as of the moment. This is mainly due to the lack of medical cases available for study because of the limited number of medical cases.
31371	Flea bites can be treated with calamine lotion to ease the itchiness. Rubbing alcohol is also recommended to disinfect the skin as well as keep the bites from swelling.
31372	Treatment for this medical condition is primarily through administering antibiotics and prompt treatment is highly critical with this condition. Surgery may also be conducted to remove the infected tissues and fluid.
31374	Individuals with floppy valve syndrome or MVP and symptoms of dysautonomia such as palpitations and chest pain may benefit from beta-blockers while those with prior stroke or atrial fibrillation may require blood thinners like aspirin or warfarin. The condition associated with mitral regurgitation meanwhile can be treated with repair or surgical replacement of the mitral valve. Compared to replacement, repair of the mitral valve is mostly preferable but must be done by skilled surgeons. Urgent attention is required for symptomatic patients with evidence of diminished left ventricular function or left ventricular dilatation.
31375	Most cases of flourosis are minor and would typically require no form of treatment. It usually occurs on the back of the teeth where it is not easily detected. Other alternative treatment include tooth whitening, tooth restorations through veneers, crowns and bonding. Removal of stains can now be readily cured through intensive white whitening.
31376	Flu treatment is usually just bed rest and plenty of fluids. In some cases though, an antiviral medication such as oseltamivir (Tamiflu) or zanamivir (Relenza) may be prescribed. Said drugs can treat both Types A and B of influenza and work by deactivating an enzyme that helps the virus grow and spread. Oseltamivir is an oral medication while zanamivir is inhaled through a device similar to that of an asthma inhaler. Side effects such as lightheadedness, nausea, vomiting, loss of appetite, and trouble in breathing are the common side effects of both medications.
31377	Majority of the treatments available for Flynn-Aird syndrome are typically supportive in nature. Steroids along with IVIG or ACTH may be administered. Approaches may also differ depending on the symptoms involved and treatments are usually presented to alleviate or manage the symptoms.
31378	Injected botox, or botulinum toxin that is prepared commercially, has been found to treat focal dystonia. Botox injection is aimed at the junction of the neuromuscles to stop acetylcholine from being released. Acetylcholine, a neurotransmitter, is responsible for the muscle contractions.
31380	Surgical procedures can treat this condition and post procedure medications. Otherwise, corticosteroids may be advised.
31382	Folate deficiency can be treated with proper diet and food supplements such sulfasalazine. Regular intake of vitamins can also help induce folic acid levels in the body.
31383	Treatment is aimed at addressing the cause, which may be poor diet or malabsorption disease. Affected individuals may take oral or intravenous folic acid supplement on a short-term basis until the anemia has been corrected. In cases of poor absorption by the intestine, replacement therapy may be lifelong. It is also recommended to increase intake of green leafy vegetables and citrus fruits.
31384	Effective treatments for follicular lymphoma are radiotherapy, steroid therapy, chemotherapy, and interferon injections.
31385	Relieving symptoms such as warm compress and anti itch cream helps. But usually without medical treatment it goes away after a few days. Recurring cases require treatment and will depend on type and severity of infection.
31386	Treatment for the disease can be done by special diets that can help control the production of the PAH enzyme, as well as undergoing special education programs to aid the development of the patient's skills.
31387	The only way effective way to avoid an allergic reaction is to diligently avoid the foods that cause all the signs and symptoms of an allergy attack. Antihistamine drugs are also useful.
31389	Antibiotics are prescribed to treat food poisoning. Public health sanitation must also be promoted in communities to avoid risks of food poisoning.
31390	Foodborne illnesses can be treated with ensuring community sanitation measures as well as properly cooked food. Other medications are given to treat the symptoms of the illness.
31391	Among the specific treatments for foot drop include braces or splints, physical therapy, nerve stimulation, and surgery.
31392	Foot ulcers are treated with antibiotics to prevent infections. Diabetic medication is also targeted to cure the lesions.
31393	Doctors may recommend dietary changes like increase in protein consumption. A high protein diet helps facilitate gluconeogenesis. Patients may be prescribed cornstarch in between meals or at night time. This helps avoid blood sugar levels to go down. In grave cases, liver transplants will be needed.
31394	Treatment is not needed for Fordyce spots. But if irritation is noted, mild topical steroids may provide relief but should be used with caution.
31395	There is no known existing cure for Forestier's disease. Though no treatment is required in many cases, the doctor may recommend treatments to control pain and maintain range of motion in affected joints if symptoms are experienced. The use of Tylenol and NSAIDs, as well as inflammatory drugs, may be prescribed to treat pain. Exercise may be recommended to address stiffness. Surgery on the other hand is performed in rare cases where severe complications are experienced. Pressure on the spinal cord may be relieved thru surgery.
31396	Aspiration of stomach contents may be done, although this may unfortunately cause pneumonitis. As an alternative, dilution of stomach contents through fluid intake may be done. In cases of emergency, oxygen may be administered. Contaminated clothing must be stripped off and contaminated skin must be thoroughly washed.
31397	Specially tailored treatment programs may be given by doctors per patient need. Consulting doctors with various specializations may prove advantageous. Seek advice from pediatricians, EENT doctors, audiologists, and orthopedists. Physical therapy, brace fittings, hearing aids, and other support aids may be prescribed so that patients can lead a more normal life. Anticonvulsant drugs may be administered to stop seizures.
31398	Treatment may be through topical steroids, oral antibiotics, clindamycin preparations, and hormonal therapy, in severe cases, phototherapy, dermabrasion, and surgical excision.
31399	Applying casts are the most common way to immobilize a bone. In some cases though, doctors may recommend a removable splint. There are also casts designed for kids and are water-resistant. They come in a variety of colors and designs. Casts are often removed in three weeks time since children's bones tend to heal faster.
31400	Growth plate fractures treatment depends on the severity of the fracture. Least serious cases usually require only a cast or a splint. In cases where a part of the bone end has separated from the bone shaft typically will need surgical repair. If a child has had a growth plate fracture, the doctor probably will want to compare the growth of the injured limb with that of its opposite limb every three to six months for at least two years.
31401	Treatment of stress fractures often focuses on simple self-care measures such as rest, applying ice to the affected area, and taking pain relievers. Doctors may immobilize the affected bone with a splint or cast in more severe cases. A pin must sometimes be surgically inserted into the bone to hold it together and promote proper healing.
31402	The common method used to treat a fractured femur is surgery. A metal rod is inserted to replace the damaged thigh bone. Less common procedures include plates and external fixators that screw the replacement to the connecting bones.
31403	Regular treatment will involve specialize education and various speech and occupational therapies. Behavior may also undergo modification programs. Surgical procedures may be required in complex cases such as corrections of heart defects. Patients and families are advised to undergo genetic counseling. Folic acid intake helps improve hyperactive behaviors and attention deficiencies in some emerging adolescents.
31404	The disease is treated by anti-inflammatory drugs to help reduce the swelling and infection.
31406	Corrective surgeries may help. However, if a severe case of Fraser Syndrome is positively diagnosed prenatally, the parents are advised to terminate pregnancy.
31407	There is still no cure for this condition. Certain medicines are to be used.
31408	Early consultations with qualified doctors are advised. If possibilities of improvement, correction, or enhancement are present in the areas of craniofacial, clubfoot, or hand problems, one may consult with craniofacial and also orthopaedic surgeons. Surgical procedures are to be cautiously and conservatively pursued since procedures may complicate matters and may worsen patient's health condition. The earliest possible treatment is recommended as early intervention always increases success rates. Psychotherapy (and marriage counseling) is a must in order to address depression and anxiety problems if present. Other treatments will be the use of feeding and breathing support, speech therapy, dental prostheses, plastic surgery for malformation corrections, physical and occupations therapy, and others.
31409	Some forms of treatment may be any one or more of the following: botulinum toxin type injection, nerve fibers surgical transaction, and/or ointment application which contains anticholinergic drugs like scopolamine.
31410	There is still no current cure for this condition and no exact treatments are fully effective. Symptoms and complications may be treated but the condition itself is non treatable.
31411	Treatment is done based on the kind of frigidity a person is into. Situational frigidity may require counseling and psychological therapy; medical frigidity can be treated with hormone inducing agents as well as proper diet.
31412	It is important to distinguish those who have acquired Froelich's syndrome from those teenage males who have an inherited growth delay disturbances or those with Prader Willi syndrome.
31413	Most anti-seizure drugs seem to work well at controlling frontal lobe seizures. However, not everyone becomes seizure-free on medication, in which doctors may recommend surgery to remove the small portion of the brain that produces the seizures.
31414	Most anti-seizure drugs seem to work well at controlling frontal lobe seizures. However, not everyone becomes seizure-free on medication, in which doctors may recommend surgery to remove the small portion of the brain that produces the seizures.
31415	There is no known cure for FTD as of yet. Treatment includes management of symptoms such as controlling behavioral manifestations and aiding with motor disabilities.
31415	There's no known cure available for frontotemporal dementia as well as there is no effective method to slow down its progression. Treatment primarily helps only in managing the symptoms. Medications may include antipsychotic and tranquilizers.
31417	The first step in treating frostbite is moving the victim to a warm location and seeking emergency medical assistance. Frostbitten skin should be thawed by soaking the area in warm water. In cases where this isn't possible, warmth may be conveyed via body to body contact. Warming the frostbitten skin is a top priority until the affected areas regain sensation or mobility. After this first line of treatment, the affected patient must be placed in a constantly warm location, as re-exposure to lower temperatures can cause further damage. In cases where frostbite damage has become too severe, usually with the appearance of gangrene, amputation of the affected region may be necessitated to prevent the damage from further spreading.
31418	Doctors may recommend the following treatments: nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), heat or cold, corticosteroids, surgery, shoulder manipulation, and electric stimulation.
31419	Treatment includes a change of diet. Fructose and sucrose has to be eliminated from the diet so that symptoms and the underlying disorder will not occur. If a fructose and sucrose restricted diet is adhered by the individual, he or she will have a good prognosis.
31420	Treatment for Fructosuria involves eliminating sources of the sugar from the diet. By reducing and restricting the amount of fructose ingested, the amount of fructose present in the urine will also decrease.
31421	Psychotherapy, sometimes involving hypnosis, is usually effective in the treatment of dissociative fugue. Patients, with support from therapists, are encouraged to remember past events by learning to face and cope with the stressful experiences that led to the fugue.
31422	Treatment involves admission to hospital; often intensive care unit admission or very close observation are needed. Supportive treatment is with enough nutrition, optimalisation of the fluid balance, mechanical ventilation and intracranial pressure monitoring (in severe encephalopathy), and treatment aimed at removing the underlying cause (such as acetylcysteine for paracetamol poisoning).
31424	To treat nail fungus, the doctor may prescribe an oral antifungal medication, such as: Itraconazole (Sporanox); Fluconazole (Diflucan); and Terbinafine (Lamisil).
31425	Fungal meningitis is treated with anti-fungal medication. Patients who are in advanced stages of the disease may experience seizures, paralysis, hearing loss and speech difficulties.
31426	A funnel chest can be treated by surgery not only to correct the displaced ribs but also to ensure that there are no further defects that would involve the heart and lungs.
31427	G6PD deficiency is usually left undiagnosed until the patient develops symptoms. Treatment of the disease is by stopping the consumption of food and drugs that trigger the symptoms. Severe cases meanwhile are treated based on the complicating illness caused by the deficiency.
31428	Treatment is usually done by excision. In this method, an incision is made and the tumor is excised.
31429	The treatment includes restriction of intake of lactose in the diet.
31430	There is no treatment for Galactorrhea because the condition as well as the spontaneous milk discharge goes away over time. Symptomatic treatments would include avoiding overstimulation of the breasts and performance of breast exams more than one time per month.
31431	Treatment of classic galactosemia includes strictly restricting the individual's diet. Infants diagnosed with classic galactosemia can never be breast-fed due to the presence of lactose in human breast milk. Infants who have classic galactosemia can be fed with formulas that have no lactose present in them.
31432	The treatment for Galactosemia is directed towards changing the individual's diet. Sources of galactose and lactose are eliminated from the diet. Individuals diagnosed with Duarte galactosemia need not restrict their diet. However, individuals with classic galactosemia should not be breast-fed as breast milk contains lactose. They can, however, be fed specialized milk formulas.
31433	Treating gallbladder disease depends largely on the specific type. Gall stones typically do not cause any symptoms and therefore require no particular treatment. In cases where gallbladder disease is defined by unhealthy bile production, treatment is focused on improving the quality of the bile by improving the functioning of the liver. In some cases, surgery is required to remove the defective gall bladder. But even if the gall bladder is removed, problems in the liver's bile ducts may still persist. Therefore, it is necessary to address the underlying toxic bile problem during treatment. Patients may also require drastic dietary changes. Preserved meats, dairy products, smoked food, junk food, and the like must be avoided. Increasing daily water intake is also recommended.
31434	If gallbladder cancer is detected early, the best option for treatment is to surgically remove the gallbladder or part of the bile duct to eliminate the cancerous tissue. However, if the cancer has advanced, no form of surgical intervention can remove the cancer completely, in which case therapy is mostly focused on symptom management alone.
31435	There has not been an effective treatment for curing Galloway Mowat syndrome both for its renal and neurologic manifestations.
31438	More often, the cysts will disappear over time. In cases of small cysts that do not cause other symptoms, no treatment is necessary. If a ganglion cyst is symptomatic, it can be control by aspiration or excision. Aspiration of the cyst is the simpler of the two procedures, but cysts recur in approximately 50% of cases.
31439	The best treatment for gangrene is revascularization which is the restoration of blood flow) of the affected organ, which can reverse some of the effects of necrosis and allow healing. Treatment includes auto-amputation, debridement and local care, or surgical amputation. The method of treatment generally recognize depending on location of affected tissue and extent of tissue loss.
31440	Psychiatric care is given to patients with the disease.
31443	Diet: eat fewer foods that cause gas such as limit the intake of meat, fruits and vegetables, whole grains and milk product. Over the counter medicines: digestive enzymes, lactase supplements taken after eating, beano Prescription medicines: to aid in reducing symptoms Reducing swallowed air: avoid chewing gum and eating hard candy, eat slowly and check that dentures are fitted properly with the help of a dentist
31444	To avoid gas pains, one can try cutting back on fried, fatty, and high-fiber foods. Also, eating smaller meals, chewing food more carefully, avoiding chewing gum and drinking through a straw can help avoid gas pains.
31445	Gastric cancer may be completely removed through surgery, but the success of the surgery depends on how advanced the cancer has become. A subtotal or partial gastrectomy may be done to remove the cancerous cells. In addition, gastric cancer can be treated with chemotherapy, radiation therapy, antibiotics for H. pylori infections, as well as drug treatment to target symptoms.
31446	To avoid rapid gastric emptying, people must avoid food that triggers its occurrence. Treatment, as such, involves both a change in eating habits with supplementary medication. Patients are advised to take several small meals in a day, which are low in carbohydrate content, and to drink liquids between and not during the meal. Medication includes cholestyramine or proton pump inhibitors.
31447	If changing the person's diet doesn't relieve his symptoms, the doctor may advise medications or surgery to slow the emptying of the stomach's contents.
31448	The treatment for gastric erosion includes regimens of proton pump inhibitors such as omeprazole and esomeprazole to suppress acids, as well as an H2 receptor antagonist. Avoidance of acidic drinks such as tea, soft drinks and coffee are also advised.
31450	Treatment for gastritis usually consists of removing the irritant or the infection. In cases of infection, a doctor often prescribes antimicrobial drugs. Helicobacter infection typically answers well to the triple therapy protocol (consisting of two antibiotics, and a proton pump inhibitor).
31451	The objective of treatment is to replace lost fluids and electrolytes. The person's usual foods and drinks should not be withheld, but consume as the person is able to tolerate them.
31452	Eosinophilic gastroenteritis is usually managed with the use of corticosteroid therapy. Steroid-sparing agents, if eosinophilic gastroenteritis is deemed to have arisen from an allergy, are used. A diet eliminating possible food allergens is used for possible food allergy triggers.
31453	Gastrointestinal anthrax, once diagnosed, can be immediately treated with antibiotics such as penicillin and ciproflaxin.
31455	This kind of bleeding can be treated with intravenous fluids, proton pump inhibitors and blood transfusion to replace lost blood. Occasional vasopressin analogues and tranexamic acid are also administered to help fight infection.
31456	GIST were notorious for being resistant to chemotherapy, with a success rate of less than 5% but recently the c-kit tyrosine kinase inhibitor, a drug initially marketed for chronic myelogenous leukemia, was found to be useful in trewating GIST. Therapy for GIST best consulted to the physicians who are knowledgeable with the disease. Such as doctors specifically surgeons and medical oncologists are found at major cancer centers.
31457	Treatment of the tumors is by surgical procedures. The tumors are not malignant.
31458	Change in diet: small more frequent meals, low-fiber foods, foods low in fat, liquid and pureed foods, nutritional supplements, water therapy, feeding tube. Medications: anti-emetics to control nausea and prokinetics to stimulate contractions of stomach muscles Prokinetic drugs: metoclopramide, erythromycin, cisapride Surgery when other medications fail Emerging therapies: botulinum toxin (botox), electrical gastric stimulation
31458	Treatment includes dietary changes [low-fiber and low-residue diets, as well as (in some cases) restrictions on fat and/or solids], oral medications [Metoclopramide (Reglan, Maxolon, Clopra), Cisapride (Propulsid), Erythromycin (E-Mycin, Erythrocin, Ery-Tab, EES)], adjustments in insulin injections for people with diabetes, a jejunostomy tube, implanted gastric neurostimulators ("stomach pacemakers"), botulinum toxin, or parenteral nutrition.
31459	The existing treatment for Gaucher's disease is the heftily priced Cerezyme, introduced intravenously, costing about $550,000 for a single patient. This treatment must be progressively taken for the entire duration of the life of the patient.
31460	The existing trearment for Gaucher disease is an intravenous medication called Cerezyme. This medication costs $550,000 annually per patient, with medication having to continue for the entirety of the patient's lifetime. A new medicine known as Miglustat has approval underway.
31461	Currently, there is drug therapy for Gaucher disease. Cerezyme, an intravenous medication that costsabout $550,000 annually for a patient is administered and is to be carried out for the duration of the patient's life. Another drug, Miglustat, is underway in 2003.
31462	The treatment for Gaucher disease costs $550,000 annually for a single patient, and is done through the intravenous introduction of the drug Cerezyme. This treatment is to be carried on for the duration of the patient's life. Another medication, Miglustat, was approved in 2003.
31464	Treatment for Gelineau disease includes both drug and sleep therapy. For drug therapy, the patient's drowsiness is treated using stimulants such as methylpehnidate or modafinil. As for sleep therapy, patients are instructed to take about two to three scheduled naps during the day for durations of 10 to 15 minutes in addition to getting a good night's rest.
31465	There is no specific treatment for the illness. Patients meanwhile may undergo consistent therapy and counseling. Family support is also a must during treatment.
31466	The two main treatments for generalized anxiety disorder are medications and psychotherapy, either alone or together. It may take some trial and error to discover which treatment works best for the patient and which he or she is most comfortable with.
31468	There is presently no cure for genital herpes. However, genital herpes treatment includes oral prescription antiviral medications, including famciclovir (Famvir), acyclovir (Zovirax), and valacyclovir (Valtrex), to help heal the sores sooner and reduce the frequency of relapses. If taken daily, these medications may also reduce the chance of infecting one's partner with the herpes virus.
31469	Chemotherapy and radiotherapy are used to reduce the development of cancers in the genital area. Since they are malignant they cannot be surgically treated.
31470	Genital warts has several ways to treat them: Imiquimod as tropical immune response cream, 20% podpphyllin anti-mitotic solution, 0.5% podofilox solution, 5% 5-flurouracil (5-FU) cream, Trichloroacetic Acid (TCA), Pulsed dye laser, Liquid nitrogen cryosurgery, Electric or laser cauterization. Small warts can be removed by freezing (cryosurgery), burning (electrocautery), or by laser treatment. Surgery is use to remove large warts that have not responded to other treatment.
31471	On the occasion that Genu varum results from rickets, it is vital that the disease be treated as a constitutional disease. Moreover, parents must be instructed to not place the child with Genu varum on their feet. While this in itself does not constitute a cure, applying supporting splints may be used to hasten the correction of the deformity. For adult patients that manifest Genu varum from occupational accidents or trauma, the sole treatment available is surgery.
31472	There are variety of strong medicines prescribe for those who have genuphobia. The side effects and withdrawal symptoms of these medicines can be severe. These medicines will not cure the genuphobia but it can temporarily suppress the symptoms both artificially and chemically for those people who have these disorder.
31473	Treatment medically is not required for geographic tongue. Its can be healed on its own for a period of time, and maybe up to a year or more, it can be healed. After that, the normal appearance of the tongue will return to normal. Avoiding hot and spicy foods, acidic foods and acidic beverages, alcohol and smoking can reduce soreness or the burning discomfort. Avoiding them can also avoid aggravating the geographic tongue. Toothpaste that has tartar control additives, having too much flavors, and whitening toothpaste can also aggravate the geographic tongue. Toothpaste for sensitive teeth will be helpful.
31474	The most popular pharmaceutical treatments for GERD are proton pump inhibitors and antacids. Proton pump inhibitors effectively reduce the secretion of gastric acids. Antacids, taken before one's meals or at the outset of symptoms, can help lower the acidity of the gastric region. Lifestyle treatments suggest taking smaller but more frequent meals. Avoiding food intake about 2-3 hours before going to bed is also advocated.
31475	There is no standard treatment yet for the disease.
31476	Symptoms are typically treated with paracetamol until the disease has run its course. Treatment of newly born babies is concentrated on management of the complications. Congenital heart defects and cataracts can be corrected with surgery. Management for ocular CRS is similar to that for age-related macular degeneration, including regular monitoring, counseling, and the provision of low vision devices, if required.
31477	There is no treatment to shorten the course of rubella infection. It is highly recommended to isolate patients from others particularly pregnant women during the infectious period. Antibodies are given to pregnant women to get rid off infection. Early treatment is needed for children that have several problems or complications.
31478	No specific treatment has been identified specifically for the German syndrome. However it is advised that parents should seek Health Professionals, Psychologist, psychiatrists, therapist and counselors.
31480	There is no treatment for Gerstmann's syndrome. Cures are symptomatic and supportive. Therapies like occupational and speech may help erase the dysgraphia and apraxia. Calculators and word processors can help children cope with the sign of the disorder.
31481	There is no treatment for the disease.
31482	This disease can be treated by controlling the glucose levels. This will reduce the risk for the mother and the child that can lead to a serious fetal complication. A change to the diet and regular exercise can also help improve the patient's condition. For some women, the antidiabetic drugs or insulin will be needed as well. Monitoring the blood glucose levels on a regular basis is also crucial.
31483	The most common treatment for Pemphigoid Gestationis is corticosteroids like prednisone and other topical steroids. This helps by decreasing the number of antibodies that attacks the skin. Treatment will take months and remissions may happen. There is no cure for Pemphigoid Gestationis. Pregnant women who are undergoing this disease should be monitored.
31484	All forms of Gestational Trophoblastic Diseases are treatable. They all needed surgery to remove the mole and after the surgery, chemotherapy should follow. For the hydatidiform, a second surgery is needed after the chemotherapy in order to prevent moles from developing into a malignant gestational trophoblastic disease.
31486	As soon as symptoms starts showing up; a patient must start taking corticosteroids even before diagnosis has been confirmed by the biopsy. Steroids do not cure the diagnosis. Changes cause by the steroids will be observed in the first week of treatment and becomes more difficult to identify after two months.
31487	There is no standard therapy for Castleman's disease at the moment. The timing of diagnosis, with particular attention to the difficulty of determining the cause of B symptoms without a CT scan and lymph node biopsy, may impact dramatically on the prognosis and risk of death. Left untreated, this disease usually gets worse and becomes increasingly difficult and unresponsive to current treatment regimens.
31488	There are different treatments for conjunctivitis; all of them depend on the kind of infection. Cool water can constrict the capillaries. Artificial teardrops can also relieve any discomforts. If the reaction is severe already, non-steroidal inflammatory medications and antihistamines can be taken. For bacterial conjunctivitis, an antibiotic eye drops or ointment can be used as well. It doesn't affect the severity of the symptom but it can reduce the healing process from 4.8 days to 3.3 days. There is no cure of viral conjunctivitis; cool compress and artificial tear can give symptomatic relief. Topical corticosteroid drops can be used to reduce inflammation discomfort.
31489	There is no exact treatment for the giant platelet syndrome. The bleeding can only be managed by the use of coagulation drugs such as DDAVP.
31490	Children and adults who have giardia infection but no symptoms generally don't need treatment unless they're likely to spread the parasites. Many people who do have problems usually get better on their own in a few weeks.
31491	Giardiasis can be treated with metronidazole, and the giardia cysts can be flushed away be drinking distilled water. The trophozoites meanwhile remain in the digestive tract for months or even years. The disease can also resolve itself within a matter of days.
31492	A variety of drugs are used to treat giardiasis in adults, if treatment is necessary, because in some instances a person's body may be strong enough to fight the infection. Common medical treatments include quinacrine, metronidazole, and albendazole. In children, nitazoxanide are used.
31493	Surgery is the most common form of treatment for cases where the pituitary tumors are clear and well defined. The process is effective for 80% of cases. For cases where surgery is not possible, medication is given. The types of medication given for gigantism are somatostatin analogs, which are highly effective in decreasing the growth hormone secretion.
31494	For patients with jaundice, small doses of phenobarbitone are usually prescribed. Because Gilbert's syndrome is harmless, no treatment is necessary.
31495	There is no known cure for Gilles de la Tourette's syndrome; but there is, however, treatment available that may alleviate the most severe symptoms of an individual which interferes in his ability to function in his daily life. These include psychological and educational interventions, and in severe cases, medication. Pimozide, haloperidol, tiapride, and sulpiride are effective medications used to alleviate tics.
31496	Brushing or flossing alone cannot remove the plaque that causes gingivitis, professional help must be sought. Dentists treat gingivitis by thoroughly cleansing the mouth area especially gums and teeth, and the patient must continue to practice oral hygiene after treatment. Oral hygiene can help prevent gingivitis from occurring again, provided the patient brushes, and flosses regularly. Anti-bacterial mouthwashes also help.
31497	The disease is treated by reducing the symptoms. Children are advised to practice oral hygiene. Medicated mouthwashes are also recommended. Hydrogen peroxide can also relieve one of the pain brought about by the sores.
31498	Gitelman syndrome is treatable through medications. These include a liberal intake of dietary sodium, potassium sparing diuretics, and magnesium and potassium supplements.
31499	Treatment like administration of sodium and potassium supplements, calcium or magnesium supplements and Indomethacin are used to treat the condition.
31500	Because the disease is uncommon antibiotic treatment are limited. For experimental animals, sulfadiazine is used also in humans. The bacteria that cause the disease are sensitive to tetracyclines, ciprofloxacin, streptomycin, novobiocin, gentamicin, imipenem, ceftrazidime, and the sulfonamides.
31501	Infectious mononucleosis has no specific medical treatments as of the present. The disease meanwhile can resolve on its own after a few weeks.
31502	The only cure for Glanzmann's thrombasthenia is bone marrow transplant. In cases where serious bleeding occurs, platelet transfusions may be conducted to treat the condition. In such instances however, the transfusions may result in the development of antibodies against platelets, which is why anti-platelet drugs must be avoided.
31503	Vascular flow and neurodegenerative theories of glaucomatous optic neuropathy have prompted studies on various therapeutic interventions including nutritional compounds some of which may regard by clinicians as safe for use now, others are on trial.
31504	Although treatment depends on the location of the glioblastoma in the brain and its severity, it usually includes a combination of chemotherapy, surgery, and radiation therapy. Radiation and surgery, on the other hand, is effective in treating spinal cord tumors. Treatment may also make use of medication, and the most effective known medication today is Temolozomide.
31505	Treatment for Glioblastoma multiforme is very challenging and complicated; it poses serious risks for the patient and the tumors are very resistant. Treating the condition will require surgery as the first step towards a longer survival time, because the procedure will be able to decrease some symptoms and remove the tumor. 5-aminolevulinic acid, a fluorescent dye, highly increases the chance of an almost complete removal of the tumor if used during the initial surgery. Following surgery, radiotherapy is part of the treatment due to its effectiveness in decreasing the size of the tumor. Lastly, chemotherapy is the treatment of choice and is conducted during and after radiotherapy for its ability to further decrease the tumor size.
31506	The grade and location of the brain glioma determine the type of treatment. A combination of radiation, chemotherapy, and surgery is often used. Spinal cord tumors, on the other hand, are treatable through radiation and surgery. High-grade cases are treatable through a combination of chemotherapy and angiogenic blockers.
31507	Radiation therapy is the treatment of choice for gliomatosis cerebri. The high-energy rays from the radiation may be able to kill or shrink tumors and cancer cells. But because the disease is spreads fast around the brain, radiation therapy is often used to just slow down the cancer. Chemotherapy treatments are also used, including temozolomide or PCV.
31508	Treatment includes radiation therapy and immunotoxin therapy.
31509	Treatment for the disease is done by dialysis, immunosuppresant medications and plasmapheresis. When not treated glomerular diseases can lead to end stage renal failure.
31510	The treatment given to patients with the disorder depends on the cause and the severity of its symptoms. High blood pressure is an important aspect that must be treated. Medications include corticosteroids, blood pressure medications, and immunosuppressives.
31511	Certain factors of a patient's health need to be determined for treatment. These include overall health, medical history, age, severity of disease, tolerance for certain medications and therapies, and the patient's preference. Medications usually include dialysis, immunosuppressant drugs, diet modification, kidney transplant, and blood pressure medications.
31512	The purpose of the treatment is to reduce the inflammation. Good oral hygiene is necessary. Topical creams are applied to treat the inflammation; antibiotics and antifungal medications are also given depending on the cause of the disease. Vitamin B supplements are also prescribed to patients who suffer from the disease because of the said deficiency.
31513	Treatment for the condition varies on the patient, and typically includes topical pain relievers, small doses of antidepressants, benzodiazepine, and anticonvulsant medications, treatment of its possible causes such as vitamin deficiencies or diabetes, and microsurgery on lingual nerve if the condition is caused by nerve damage.
31514	Hypnosis or hypnotherapy has been a popular and effective mode of treating glossophobia.
31515	Octreotide is administered to treat the glucagon production. Octreotide is a somatostatin analog and works by decreasing the glucagon release. Other medications include streptozotocin and doxorubicin, which effectively damage certain alpha cells, although they do not cure the tumor. This treatment also slows down the onset of symptoms. A surgical resection is the only known effective and curative therapy for glucagonoma. The procedure completely removes the tumors and even reverses symptoms in some cases.
31516	Enzyme replacement therapy is available, thought a bone marrow transplant may be needed in severe cases.
31517	For those who are prone to the disease, prevention is key. It helps to avoid the foods and drugs that may lead to hemolysis, as well as vaccination for pathogens. However if a drug is causing the condition, simply stopping the drug can treat the disease.
31518	There is no known cure for glucose-galactose malabsorption. However, diarrhea can be controlled by removing sucrose, glucose, and lactose from their diets. If infants are diagnosed prenatally with the condition, they should be treated with a fructose-based formula and continue their development with fructose-based solid foods. Older children as well as adults can decrease their symptoms by living on a fructose-based diet. This has also shown to improve glucose tolerance as they get older.
31519	The common treatment for the condition is by blowing up a rubber balloon. The air used to inflate the balloon reaches the ear's passages causing the linings to widen. The vacuum is then released and normal hearing is restored. The condition resolves on its own after a few hours.
31520	Carnitine treatments are effective in curing the carnitine depletion symptoms caused by the disorder. The treatments aid in muscle growth and strength, and allows the patient to be less dependent on medical food provided there is liberal protein intake. Xtrp Analog, Xlys, Xtrp Maxamaid, Xtrp Maxamum, and Glutarex1 are formulas that replenish the body with amino acids and also temporarily prevent put a stop to protein malnutrition. Lysine restriction is also an effective treatment, combined with carnitine supplements, for patients to have a good prognosis.
31521	Once gluten is removed from one's diet, inflammation in the small intestine will begin to subside, usually within several weeks. If nutritional deficiencies are severe, vitamin and mineral supplements may be recommended by the doctor or dietitian to help correct these deficiencies.
31522	The treatment will depend on the type of the GSD. Although some cannot be treated, others are fairly easy to control in terms of their symptoms. The treatable types of GSD can be managed by intake of high carbohydrate meals in the daytime, consumption of uncooked cornstarch every 4 to 6 hours for children over 2 years old, regular nighttime feeding through a tube, and drug treatment to prevent kidney stones and gout.
31525	Treatment depends on which symptoms are being experienced by patients, such as physical therapy, occupational therapy, as well as respiratory and cardiac treatments. Families may avail of genetic counseling for information on future pregnancies. Myozyme is a recently FDA-approved medication, the first developed to effectively treat Pompe disease. However, the treatment must be taken for the whole of the patient's life and is quite costly.
31526	There is no known treatment for glycogen storage disease type V. However, a healthy diet is important, and the patient must avoid anaerobic exercise. A diet rich in protein is beneficial in replacing damaged muscle. Weight should be controlled, and gentle aerobic exercise is beneficial to patients. Walking or cycling are ideal forms of gentle exercise that can help the patient control the symptoms.
31527	Diet management is the most effective treatment for this type of GSD. For patients who suffer from fasting hypoglycemia, frequent feedings and a diet high in carbohydrates is effective. Some patients are also treated by supplementing their diet with unsaturated fats, and high-protein diets. However, a number of patients also require no dietary intervention. Patients who have significant hepatomegaly must avoid contact sports.
31528	Presently, there are no known medications to treat this disease. However, patients must avoid stressful forms of exercise. Exercise may cause pain and even lead to kidney damage, and myoglobinuria may also occur as a result of this. A high-protein diet is found to be beneficial for some patients. High-carbohydrate foods must be avoided as they can contribute to exercise intolerance.
31529	Treatment includes eating well balanced diet that is well advised and monitored by a dietician, regular excercise, monitoring blood sugar levels and taking insulin.
31530	If the size of the goitre is small, treatment is not necessary. Thyroid hormone replacement through levothyroxine can treat hypothyroidism. It may also decrease progression of thyroid-stimulating hormones in the pituitary gland. Corticosteroids or aspirin medication may treat inflammation of the thyroid gland. In some cases, the goitre is severe and disrupts breathing and swallowing functions. Surgery is an option as it removes part or all of the thyroid gland. Surgery can also prevent thyroid cancer. An overactive thyroid gland may be treated with radioactive iodine.
31531	Surgical intervention is the most effective form of treatment for patients of Goldenhar syndrome. Surgery allows the child to normally develop his facial features.
31532	Simple analgesic medication may be administered, including oral anti-inflammatory medications. The definitive treatment is, though, the injection into and around the inflamed and tender area of a long-acting glucocorticoid (steroid) agent. After resulting to an initial exacerbation of symptoms lasting 24 to 48 hours, this will produce a resolution of the condition in some five to seven days.
31533	Oestrogen supplements are typical treatments during puberty. Some cases require growth hormone replacement. For patients who have coarctation of the aorta, cardiac surgery is required treatment.
31534	Treatments includes hormonal treatment after reaching puberal age.
31535	Treatment includes administration of growth hormone with low dose of androgen and estrogen replacement therapy
31536	Estrogen and Progesteron therapy are usually advised to be undertaken by the person with this medical condition. Embryo transfer also is suggested to those want to conceive children but their gonads cannot produced eggs due to the XX gonadal dysgenesis.
31537	Treatment includes estrogen and progesterone therapy. Surgical removal of the gonads are also advised to prevent developing cancer.
31538	Treatment includes prophylaxis (Barsam PC. Specific prophylaxis of gonorrheal ophthalmia neonatorum. A review. N Engl J Med. Mar 31 1966;274(13):731-4). It is also treated through administration of oral erythromycin and systemic acyclovir to reduce the chance of a systemic infection.
31539	Antibiotic medications for gonorrhea treatment due to more and more strains of gonorrhea are becoming drug resistant, it's important that you take the full course of medication. Not taking the full course of medication would allow the most drug-resistant organisms to survive. However over-the-counter pain relievers may reduce signs or symptoms, these medications won't cure gonorrhea.
31540	It is commonly treated with oral immunosuppressive drugs like cyclophosphamide and corticosteroids.
31541	Immunosuppresants and corticosteroids are effective forms of treatment. However, they pose serious side effects, making the patient more vulnerable to infections. Patients who smoke must also quit in order to stop lung hemorrhaging. Antibiotics are prescribed to treat lung infections.
31542	Treatment focuses on hindering the disease progression through therapeutic measures. These include ALPHA-Interferon, Radiation Therapy, and bisphsphonates.
31543	There is no specific treatment yet for gorlin syndrome. Doctors however use laser therapy and surgery to remove carcinomas. Avoidance of radiation treatment is also helpful since it has the tendency to aggravate the condition.
31544	Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may control inflammation and pain in people with gout. Colchicine controls gout effectively, but could cause uncomfortable side effects, such as nausea, vomiting and diarrhea. Steroids medications, such as drug prednisone can control gout inflammation and pain. Steroids could be administered in pill form, or they can be injected into your joint.
31545	Acute and chronic GVHD are usually treated with steroids in order to weaken the immune system. A common example of medication is prednisone combined with cyclosporine.
31546	There are various medications used in the treatment of epilepsy and seizures. Many people with epilepsy are able to prevent seizures by taking only one drug, but others need more than one.
31547	Treatment options for Granulocytopenia include antiobiotic treatment, leukocyte transfusion, and white blood cell stimulating factors.
31548	In most cases, no treatment is needed for granuloma annulare. Most lesions disappear on their own within a few months to two years from the onset. The following may be prescribed by the patient's doctor for the rash: corticosteroid creams or ointments, corticosteroid injections, and freezing lesions.
31549	Treatment for the disease includes drugs such as eryththromycin, tetracycline and streptomycin. Infections will subside after one week of treatment but may recur when full treatment is stopped.
31550	Although they frequently appear following injury, the exact cause of pyogenic granulomas is unknown. These granulomas are common in children. They can be quite annoying when these lesions bleed easily.After obtaining the biopsy, your doctor may choose to treat pyogenic granuloma through laser treatment, scraping and burning (curettage and cauterization), silver nitrate solution, surgical removal, topical imiquimod cream and freezing with liquid nitrogen.
31551	GAE can be treated by killing the amoeba present in the body. However, despite treatment the disease can be fatal and even survivors suffered neurocognitive deficits.
31552	Treatment usually consists of antithyroid medications, thyroidectomy, and radioiodine. Antithyroid medications must be taken for 6 months up to 2 years for it to be effective. Surgery is only an appropriate option for patients who are young or pregnant, if they have a large goiter, suspected cancer, and suspicious nodules.
31553	There is no curative treatment for gray platelet syndrome although it can be managed. Patients must avoid medications that impair functioning of platelets such as aspirin. Platelet transfusions are commonly conducted provided there is use of desmopressin, a medication that helps improve bleeding time.
31554	Intravenous taking of prostaglandin is given for treatment as it maintains the connection between the systematic and pulmonary circulations. Surgery is also another form of treatment as it helps the adjusting of vessels temporarily. A surgical technique, called the arterial switch procedure, provides a permanent correction during the patient's first month of life.
31556	Influenza is treated by a vaccine, or flu shot, which makes the body immune to the virus. Adequate rest and medications are also given to treat the symptoms caused by the disease.
31557	Treatment of the medical condition includes administration of antibiotics and antiviral agents. To some extent bone marrow transplantation and surgical care is also advised especially to those patients that have GC that is caused by the mutation of RAB27A.
31559	Many conditions can lead to blood in the urine. Some of these have no medical significance and do not need treatment. They tpically go away on their own. Others can be serious and need immediate treatment.
31560	GBS can be swabbed out the woman's vaginal area during neonatal or antenatal checkups. Intravenous antibiotics are also given to women affected by the infection.
31561	Prescription strength cortisone creams are effective treatments for minor cases of Grover's disease. Tetracycline pills and Accutane are used to treat more severe eruptions and are taken for 1 to 3 months. Should those treatments fail or for extreme cases, antifungal pills, cortisone injections, and PUVA phototherapy treatments can help. A cream available in France, called Aloplastine, is effective in treating the itch as well as promoting faster healing. The cream contains Talc, Zinc Oxide, and Glycerol.
31562	There is no specific treatment for growing pains, but the following can help ease the child's discomfort: rubbing and stretching the child's legs, and using a heating pad or pain reliever.
31563	The individual must undergo medical care wherein his growth is carefully monitored frequently, usually every 6 months. It is important that the growth curve trajectory and linear height velocities are analyzed. Medication is not necessary although individuals experiencing physiological distress may be prescribed medications. A balanced diet with regular calcium intake is also important to maintain bone development and normal growth.
31564	The condition may be treated with growth hormone replacement. This type of treatment can restore energy, body composition, and metabolism.
31565	Treatment to growth problems is done by addressing the underlying cause of the disorder. Proper feeding procedures should be practiced as well.
31566	Creatine replacement therapy in guanidinoacetate methyltransferase deficiency, a novel inborn error of metabolism
31568	Treatments are focused on management of the syndrome and lessening the severity. There are no curative treatments for GBS. High doses of immunoglobin and plasma exchange are common and effective forms of treatment.
31569	The most common practice to treat dracunculiasis involves wrapping the worm around a stick. This treatment has been employed for millennia and may have inspired the Rod of Asclepius which historically has symbolized the medical profession. Infected persons often do not have symptoms until about a year after they drink water contaminated with infected water fleas.
31570	There are many drugs available for symptomatic relief. Psychological counseling by those specializing in this case can be immensely beneficial, even life-saving for those contemplating suicide. Veterans' benefits were available for those who are impaired by their symptoms.
31571	Gum cancers can be treated with medications, depending on what caused the cancers to form. Among these medications are mouthwashes, avoidance of gum irritants as well as proper diet.
31572	A dental hygienist will perform a thorough cleaning of the teeth and gums; following this, persistent oral hygiene is necessary. Removing the plaque is not as painful as most people think, and the inflammation of the gums should be gone between one and two weeks. By gargling brine water also helps. By doing oral hygiene including proper brushing and flossing is required to prevent the recurrence of gingivitis. Anti-bacterial rinses or mouthwash, in particular chlorhexidine digluconate 0.2% solution, may reduce the swelling and local mouth gels which are usually antiseptic and anaesthetic can also help.
31574	As in other kind of phobias, treatment includes therapy, whether group of individual counseling, activities that slowly deviates the fear and anxiety suffered by the patient, and to some extent, administration of mild medications.
31575	Treating the underlying outcome of the gynecomastia may lead to improvement in the condition. Patients must talk with their doctor about revising any medications that are found to be causing gynecomastia; often, an alternative medication can be found that avoids gynecomastia side-effects, while still treating the primary condition for which the original medication was found not to be suitable due to causing gynecomastia side-effects (e.g., in place of taking spironolactone the alternative eplerenone can be used.) Selective estrogen receptor modulator medications, such as tamoxifen and clomiphene, or androgens or aromatase inhibitors such as Letrozole are medical treatment options, although they are not universally approved for the treatment of gynecomastia.
31576	Antibiotics such as combinations of clarothromycin-amoxicillin, metronidazole-amoxicllin, and metronidazole-tetracycline are mostly prescribed by doctors.
31577	The treatment of Hib needs an intense, sustained course of antibiotics though this is not always the case for developing countries. Hib conjugate vaccines are effective and almost have no side effects. Antibiotics used are cefotaxime, ceftriaxone, or ampicillin with chloramphenicol to treat severe cases. Preventive antibiotics such as rifampin are taken in by the people who have been exposed to Hib disease.
31577	The treatment of Hib needs an intense, sustained course of antibiotics though this is not always the case for developing countries. Hib conjugate vaccines are effective and almost have no side effects. Antibiotics used are cefotaxime, ceftriaxone, or ampicillin with chloramphenicol to treat severe cases. Preventive antibiotics such as rifampin are taken in by the people who have been exposed to Hib disease.
31578	Treatment is considered unnecessary as there are generally no negative effects but clinical and medical checkup are advised to monitor general health and infections.
31580	Psychotherapy and medications may be used to treat trichotillomania.
31581	Treatment is not necessary in all cases. Only when the symptoms interfere with an individual's daily life, or the platelet and white blood cell count fall to unsafe levels, do persons seek treatment. This type of cancer is a very slow progressing one, and some individuals would prefer to wait to treat the cancer if it even progresses. When it does, they may avail of the following treatment options: chemotherapy, biological treatments such as alpha interferon and Rituxam, as well as spleenectomy.
31583	A biopsy or scraping may be conducted, as well as antifungal or antibiotic medication. The best way to prevent this is to have good oral hygiene, and use a scraper for the tongue that will remove accumulations on the papillae.
31584	Drug therapy bisphosphonates is often used to treat problems with bone resorption.
31585	Mouthwashes often contain antibacterial agents including cetylpyridinium chloride, chlorhexidine, zinc gluconate, essential oils, and chlorine dioxide. Chlorhexidine and Zinc provide strong synergistic effect. They may contain alcohol, which is a drying agent and may worsen the problem.
31586	There is no treatment available for the condition.
31587	As there have been no curative treatments yet, treatments focus on temporary relief of the symptoms. Iron chelating agents have been used with an extent of effectiveness. HSD may result in undesirable complications. The immobility caused by the disease may lead to blood clots and respiratory infections.
31588	Hallucinations can be treated with sedatives and other anti-hallucinating drugs, such as Prozac. However, these drugs do bring about some problems especially when a patient begins to rely on medications to keep himself "normal". Other forms of treatment include counseling as well as shock therapies.
31589	Changing to proper shoe gear is the primary treatment that should be sought by individuals with hallux valgus. Orthodontics may be used to accommodate the bunion, such as shielding and padding. Ice, rest, and medications are also prescribed. For severe cases, surgery done by a podiatrist may be required.
31590	The best treatment for the onset of the disease is by prevention. Cooking food properly kills the bacteria. Antibiotics are also given to patients with the disease.
31591	If the toe is still flexible, the doctor may recommend that the patient change to roomier and more comfortable footwear and that he or she wear shoe inserts (orthotics) or pads. Wearing inserts or pads can reposition the toe and relieve pressure and pain.
31592	There is no cure although treatment is focused on alleviating symptoms. Medication may ease the pain from sores, lameness, and fever. Medication is usually not necessary unless it is a severe case.
31593	There is no cure for Rett syndrome, although therapy for disease management may make living with symptoms more bearable for the patient and family. This includes parental counseling, management of gastrointestinal and nutritional issues, modifying social medications, increasing the child's communication skills, surveillance of scoliosis and long QT syndrome, anti-psychotics for patients who tend to harm themselves, sleep aids, beta-blockers, and SSRIs.
31594	Theraphy of Hand-Schuller Christian disease varies according to age and the severity of the syndrome. Generally however, it includes orthopaedic-surgical approach, radiotherapy, chemotherapy and or immunotherapeutic treatment (De Lacharriere O, Ougier E. Histiocytose langerhansienne de l'adulte a expression cutanee. Ann Dermatol Venereol. 1990; 117: 303-310).
31595	Treatment includes restriction of amino acids phenylalanine and tyrosine in take.
31596	Effective treatment of leprosy is done by intakes of the drug dapsone. Multi-drug therapies are given to fight the bacteria and stop it from doing further damages to the body. The disfigurement however, is no longer reversible.
31597	Penicillin is usually prescribed to treat hantavirosis and other rat-borne diseases.
31598	Treatment includes oxygen therapy due to problem in breathing and close monitoring of blood gases. Endotracheal tube and ventilator are also advised for person suffering from the medical condition.
31600	Harlequin type ichthyosis is inevitably fatal. The conditions brought about upon birth make survival difficult, such as infection, dehydration, and restricted respiration. Sufferers rarely survive more than a few days. In very rare cases, sufferers have lived to adulthood.
31601	Treatments include the administration of anti-depresants, administration of beta blockers are also used to relieved symptoms of stress and tensions. Behavioral therapy and other psychotherapy are also used to reduce the symptoms.
31602	Niacin is given as treatment to sufferers. The typical dosage is 40-200 mg a day, which helps prevent the pellagra like symptoms. In some cases, dietary supplements of trytophan are required. Sufferers should eat a healthy diet, high in protein. This can prevent the disease from recurring.
31603	Although there is no cure for Hashimoto's thyroidism, hormone replacement therapy can treat the hyperthyroidism that may occur due to the illness. One pill a day is adequate for keeping thyroid levels at bay. Most cases require this type of medication to be taken for the duration of one's life.
31604	Medications for hay fever include nasal corticosteroids, oral corticosteroids, antihistamines, decongestants, cromolyn sodium, leukotriene modifiers, and nasal atropine.
31605	Treatment of the syndrome varies inasmuch as it focuses on the symptoms present. Surgery, for example, can be done to correct cleft palate and cleft lip. Speech therapy may also be necessary as well as genetic counseling for individuals and family affected by the syndrome.
31606	Treatment can be done surgery followed by radiotherapy.
31607	Treatment for head cancers include targeted therapy, chemotherapy, radiotherapy and surgery.
31608	Over-the-counter lotions or shampoos (Nix, Rid, others) are generally the first line of defense against head lice. However, if nonprescription products don't kill the lice, the doctor can prescribe a stronger shampoo or lotion, like malathion or lindane.
31610	There is no cure for this type of headache, but medication can be given is focused on decreasing the severity of pain, as well as shortening the period of bouts. Acute treatments may also be prescribed, these may include oxygen, sumatripan, dihydroergotamine, octreotide, and local anesthetics. Surgery may be prescribed to sufferers of chronic cluster headaches.
31611	There is no cure for this type of headache, but medication can be given is focused on decreasing the severity of pain, as well as shortening the period of bouts. Acute treatments may also be prescribed, these may include oxygen, sumatripan, dihydroergotamine, octreotide, and local anesthetics. Surgery may be prescribed to sufferers of chronic cluster headaches.
31612	Ice cream headaches seldom need treatment. Usually, the pain quickly disappears after the cold food or drink is swallowed.
31613	Preventive medications may include: Indomethacin, an anti-inflammatory drug; acetazolamide, a diuretic that reduces the production of spinal fluid; and topiramate, an anti-seizure drug.
31614	Before, during or after withdrawal, the doctor may prescribe a daily preventive medication, such as: A tricyclic antidepressant such as amitriptyline or nortriptyline (Aventyl, Pamelor, others); an anticonvulsant such as divalproex sodium (Depakote, others), topiramate (Topamax) or gabapentin (Neurontin); and a beta blocker such as propranolol (Inderal, InnoPran, others).
31615	If the patient has a history of sex headaches and there's no underlying cause, the doctor may recommend that she or he take preventive medicine, such as: indomethacin, an anti-inflammatory; triptans, a class of anti-migraine medication; and beta blockers, such as propranolol or metoprolol.
31616	A sinus headache can be treated with aspirin, acetaminophen, or ibuprofen to temporarily relieve pain. The doctor may also give a decongestant if the sinuses are blocked. If the patient also has sinusitis, the doctor may prescribe an antibiotic to the patient. In addition, the doctor may recommend antihistamines if allergies are causing sinusitis.
31617	The doctor may recommend bed rest and oral pain relievers. If the headache hasn't improved within 24 hours, the following treatments may be prescribed: epidural blood patch, intravenous caffeine, and epidural saline.
31618	Episodic tension-type headaches typically respond well to over-the-counter analgesics, such as paracetamol/acetaminophen, ibuprofen or aspirin.
31619	There is no single treatment for thunderclap headaches. Treatment is targeted at the underlying problem causing the headaches - if one is found. If no identifiable cause can be found and there is recurring thunderclap headaches, the doctor may suggest preventive medicine to be taken on a daily basis. With or without treatment, thunderclap headaches often stop happening within a few days or weeks.
31620	To treat a child's headache, he/she must be given plenty of fluids with no caffeine and regulated sugar. They should also have regular sleep, eat the proper diet, and acquire regular exercise.
31621	Hearing aids are a popular choice of treatment and are also effective. Cochlear implants, on the other hand, are effective in treating mild to severe forms of hearing disorders that affect language acquisition in children.
31623	Treatment includes cochlear implants and use of hearing aid (HearingLoss News and Reviews (2005-05-18).
31624	If the patient has received a diagnosis of arrhythmia, treatment may or may not be necessary. Usually, it's needed only if the arrhythmia is causing significant symptoms or if it's putting the patient at risk of a more serious arrhythmia or arrhythmia complication.
31625	Medications given to treat a heart attack include: aspirin, thrombolytics, superaspirins, other blood thinning medications, pain relievers, nitroglycerin, beta blockers, and cholesterol-lowering medications.
31626	Treatment is done once the disorder is recognized. Pregnant mothers are advised to take extra care and practice proper diets to reduce the risks of the effects of congenital heart problems. However, there is no cure yet for heart babies.
31627	A permanent pacemaker implant can relieve heart block. Mainly because the disorder causes irregular heart rhythm, the pacemaker helps the individual's heart beat regularly and consistently.
31628	The treatment of CHF focuses on treating the symptoms and signs of CHF and hindering the progression of disease. If there is a reversible cause of the heart failure (such as infection, alcohol ingestion, anemia, thyrotoxicosis, arrhythmia, or hypertension), that should be addressed as well.
31629	Healthy children with innocent murmurs do not need treatment because they have a normal heart. If your child has an innocent murmur, consult your pediatrician during regular checkups. Pregnant women with innocent murmurs due to increased blood volume do not need treatment.
31630	The most advisable and common treatment to the heart situs anomaly is through surgical treatment.
31631	If heartburn occurs when lying down, raising the head of the bed, or raising the upper body with pillows or sleeping sitting up frequently provides relief. To lessen attacks, a sufferer may find benefit in avoidance of certain foods that relax the opening between the stomach and esophagus, such as chocolate, peppermint, and chamomile tea shortly before bedtime.
31632	This kind of cramps can be treated by massaging the affected area accompanied by adequate rest.
31633	Cooling measures that may be effective include: cool, non-alcoholic beverages, as directed by the physician; rest; cool shower, bath, or sponge bath; an air-conditioned environment; and lightweight clothing.
31634	In usual cases the rash of miliaria will resolve without intervention. Moreover, severe cases can last for a number of weeks and cause significant disability. General measures should be recommended to all patients, including moving to an air-conditioned environment if possible, avoiding sweat-provoking activities and occlusive clothing, and taking frequent cool showers.
31635	The risk of heatstroke can be reduced by observing precautions to avoid overheating and dehydration. Light, loose-fitting clothing will let perspiration to evaporate. Wide-brimmed hats in bright color keep the sun from warming the head and neck; vents on a hat will let perspiration to cool the head. Strenuous exercise should be not be practiced during daylight hours in hot weather; so should remaining in enclosed spaces (such as automobiles).
31636	Treatment includes inducing vomiting in case of newly ingested metals like mercury, arsenic and thalium. Chelation theraphy is also used to screen the poison ingested.
31637	The heel spur is treated by cold compress therapies and NSAIDs. Other treatments to prevent swelling are done in response to the pains brought about by plantar fasciitis.
31638	Variations of the triple therapy have been developed over the years, such as using a different proton pump inhibitor, as with pantoprazole or rabeprazole, or using metronidazole instead of amoxicillin in those allergic to penicillin. Such a therapy has revolutionized the treatment of peptic ulcers and has made a cure to the disease possible, where previously symptom control using antacids, H2-antagonists or proton pump inhibitors alone was the only option.
31639	It is treated through administration of Vitamin D supplements inasmuch as the person suffering from the disorder may have vitamin D deficiency. Behavioral therapy including exposure and fear reduction techniques may also be used to treat the disorder. Administration also of anti-depressant drugs may be used to early stages of the treatment.
31640	There is no cure for Heller's syndrome. Treatment for this disorder is basically the same as for autism, such as medications and behavior therapy.
31641	The only effective way to treat the condition is by birth of the baby, even if premature. If not, liver failure can worsen quickly which can affect both mother and child. Complications can result in death of both mother and child.
31642	Treatment includes administration of Mebendazole
31644	Treatment for hemangioblastomas depends largely on the size of the cyst, as well as an understanding of the risks the patient is willing to undertake. Surgery is the treatment of choice for a hemangioblastoma. In cases with severe hydrocephalus, shunt procedures are required. Radiation therapy might be also be needed.
31645	Surgery remains to be treatment of choice for sufferers of hemangioendothelioma, as well as radiotherapy and chemotherapy.
31646	In majority of the cases, treatment is not needed as they will disappear at some point in the individual's life. However, in some cases, they may interfere with an individual's breathing or eyesight, as well as complicated cosmetic surgery. In these cases, corticosteroid therapy is given. If corticosteroids do not work, alternative drugs are vincristine or interferon. If these fail as well, surgery is another option.
31647	There is no specific treatment for HTS, although medication and management will depend on the location of platelets, number of lesions, and blood platelet levels. Individuals have options for supportive care and definitive treatment. Surgery provides a good option for curing the HTS, as well as other techniques that include embolization, compression bandages, radiation therapy, and certain medications (corticosteroids, chemotherapy, alpha-interferon).
31648	Hematuria (bloody urine) has no specific treatment. Therapy is focused on dealing with the underlying cause. For example, antibiotics may be prescribed for hematuria caused by urinary tract infections, etc.
31649	There is no exact treatment for the hemianopia. Magnifiers and optical devices can thus be used to improve vision.
31650	It is best to wait until the infant is slightly older to turn to surgery, although it is the most common form of treatment. If surgery is done during early phases, it may highlight the symptoms. Rib graft is a common correctional procedure.
31651	Botulinum toxin injections are given to patients with the disorder. Surgical treatment meanwhile involves microvascular decompression as well as insertion of teflon strips in between the blood vessels to prevent constrictions.
31652	Treatment of the disorder depends on the symptoms experienced by the patient. To prevent scoliosis, some wear braces or corrective shows. Plastic surgery is sometimes recommended to correct facial deformities.
31653	The most common used to treat the medical condition is the surgery of the affected side of the brain. This is usually done to control seizures.
31654	Treatment includes administration of flunarizine to reduce the severity and duration of attacks of paralysis.
31656	Ribavirin, an antiviral drug, is prescribed to decrease further infection and complications. There is no specific treatment for the total cure of hemmorhagic fevers. Supportive care is given to patients of VHF's, these include mechanical ventilators to aid breathing; adequate fluids for electrolyte balance (liquids with sodium, chloride, calcium, and potassium); kidney dialysis if needed, and therapy for secondary infections or complications.
31657	Treatment is initiated when ferritin levels reach 300 milligrams per liter or 200 in non-pregnant premenopausal women. Phlebotomy or bloodletting is usually done during weekly interval until ferritin levels are less than 20 milligrams per liter. After that, 1-4 donations per year are needed to maintain iron balance.
31658	Ongoing treatment and monitoring of the production of hemoglobin in the body is used to treat the medical condition or at least to minimize the risk of infection and painful episodes.
31659	Drugs to suppress the immune system are usually given in order to slow the breaking down of red blood cells, such as steroids. Folic acid and supplemental iron are also given, although in some cases blood transfusion may be needed.
31661	Treatment can be done by intrauterine transfusion before giving birth. After birth treatments include phototherapy, exchange transfusion and correction of acidosis.
31662	The disease is treated by dialysis and platelet transfusion to replace the lost thrombocytes. In severe cases, plasmapheresis is performed.
31663	Dialysis is a common choice for treatment of HUS; treatment is focused on easing symptoms and preventing further complications. Intravenous transfusion of red blood cells is needed in extreme cases. In rare cases, the condition progresses and results in kidney failure, resulting in long term need of dialysis treatment. HUS and thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura (TTP) may be difficult to distinguish from each other in most cases, and during these occasions plasmapheresis is used as treatment.
31664	Corticosteroids are usually provided for treatment of HLH, in combination with chemotherapy which helps suppress the immune system. Supportive treatment is also provided for the immune system, including transfusions, antibiotics, hormone replacement therapy, nutritional support, and physical therapy. Other cases of HLH may require different forms of treatment, such as radiation therapy, stem cell treatment, surgery, and immune based therapy.
31665	The best treatment prescribed to hemophiliacs is by prevention. Blood replacement is needed every time bleeding occurs. Genetic engineering has also proven to be an effective way to help treat hemophilia.
31666	Treatment with an intravenous recombinant Factor VIII is usually prescribed to patients of hemophilia A, however the supplementation may vary from patient to patient. Post trauma and surgery, additional concentrations are also given. Portable intravenous support is available for children. Some cases may require doses of vasopressin.
31667	Hemophobic patients may be treated using psychological interventions or medical devices such as pacemakers. Behavioral techniques are also applied to mitigate a patient's fainting reaction such as gradual exposure to blood. Patients who fainted when exposed to blood have low blood pressure. When this happens, tension is applied to the muscles to increase blood pressure.
31668	To treat external bleeding is easy. Doctors can treat wounds with antiseptic and other antibiotics to help stop the bleeding and allow the damaged blood vessels to heal on their own. Internal hemorrhage meanwhile needs surgical operations to remove the blood clot and prevent it from clogging the bloodstream. However, lethargic capillaries may bring the person to sudden death.
31669	Patients should be aware of certain medications to avoid such as aspirin, which can interfere with platelet function. Dental hygiene is also a vital issue. Heavy periods during a woman's menstruation cycle can result in low iron, which must be treated. Severe bleeding episodes usually require blood or platelets transfusion.
31670	Prevention of hemorrhoids includes drinking more fluids, eating more dietary fiber (such as fruits, vegetables and cereals high in fiber), exercising, practicing better posture, and reducing bowel movement strain and time. Hemorrhoid sufferers must avoid using laxatives and should strictly limit time straining during bowel movement.
31671	The source of bleeding must be removed through blood drainage in the thoracic cavity. A tube thoracostomy, a procedure wherein blood in the cavity is removed by inserting a drain or chest tube, is also conducted to manage the condition. Patients usually recover quickly after the procedure. If the cause is high energy trauma wherein the aorta is ruptured, thoracic surgery is required.
31672	Ribavirin treatments have shown effectiveness in fighting the disease. Other drug investigations have been inconclusive and more research has to be done.
31673	The treatment of HSP is targeted toward the most significant area of involvement. Joint pain can be relieved by antiinflammatory medications, like aspirin or ibuprofen (Motrin). Some patients can require cortisone medications, like prednisone, especially those with significant abdominal pain or kidney disease. With more severe kidney disease, cyclophosphamide (Cytoxan) has been used to hinder the immune system. Infection, if present, can need antibiotics.
31674	Withdrawal of heparin must be done immediately, and then replaced with an alternative coagulant. Direct thrombin inhibitors must be given to obstruct the thrombic state, such as argatroban, fondaparinux, lepirudin, danaparoid, or bivalirudin. Long term treatment includes administration of drugs similar to warfarin in order to prevent persistent blood clots.
31675	Treatment includes reduction of protein intake, correction of hypokalemia, administration of lactulose, antibiotics, rifaximin, and benzodiazepine receptor antagonists. Oral administration of magnesium citrate may aid gastrointestinal bleeding.
31676	These tumors do not cause major problems, but they can be likewise removed by surgery.
31678	When symptoms are severe or laboratory tests show liver damage, it's sometimes needed for hepatitis to be treated in the hospital.
31679	There are no medications used to treat hepatitis A due to the fact that it is a short-term infection that goes away on its own.
31680	Hepatitis B may sometimes be treated using certain medications. There are six FDA-approved treatment options available for individuals with a chronic hepatitis B infection. These are alpha-interferon, pegylated interferon adefovir, entecavir, telbivudine and lamivudine. About 65% of patients on treatment achieve a sustained response.
31681	HCV viral levels can be reduced to undetectable levels by a combination of the antiviral drug ribavirin and interferon.
31682	Interferon-alpha is administered to treat patients with chronic hepatitis B and hepatitis D infection. Some studies have shown that a dose higher than that usually used for hepatitis B infection may be beneficial for the patient.
31683	Vaccines are given to prevent the spread of hepatitis. Foreigners are likewise advised to take hepatitis vaccines before traveling to another country to keep them immune from the disease. Immunoglobulin and certain proteins are thus injected to the blood serum to treat the Hepatitis E.
31684	Complete abstinence from alcohol is the one most important treatment for alcoholic hepatitis. It is the only way to reverse liver damage or, in more advanced cases, to prevent the disease from worsening. Without treatment, the majority of people with alcoholic hepatitis eventually progresses to cirrhosis.
31685	Hepatitis E is a viral disease, and because of this, antibiotics are of no value in the treatment of the infection. Hepatitis F is one of those diseases presently known to have no treatment. There is no known treatment for any type of acute hepatitis. This goes for Hepatitis G.
31686	There aren't any specific treatment other than immediate discontinuance of the causative agent. Rest during the acute phase of the disease is crucial along with the intake of fluids to maintain hydration.
31687	There is no specific treatment yet for Hepatitis X.
31688	Steroid medication (usually prednisolone) is usually the first treatment. Steroids are good for reducing inflammation. A high dose is typically needed at first. The dose is then slowly reduced over a few weeks. The goal is to find the lowest dose needed to control the inflammation. The dose needed differs from person to person. Treatment works well in most situations. Usually, the inflammation settles and symptoms improve within a few months of treatment. However, it may take a year or more to totally get the disease under control.
31689	No particular treatment exists for most kinds of toxic hepatitis. Acute acetaminophen overdose is an exception wherein the chemical acetylcysteine is an effective antidote if given within 24 hours of the overdose. The sooner the medication is given, the better the outcome. For almost all cases of drug-induced toxic hepatitis, stopping the medication is the only treatment. Some people improve rapidly once they're no longer exposed to the drug, especially if the problem is caught early. For others, recovery may take several months.
31690	Treatment may include (alone or in combination): surgery (to remove tumor and part or all of the liver); chemotherapy; liver transplant; supportive care (for the side effects of treatment); antibiotics (to prevent and treat infections); and continuous follow-up care (to determine response to treatment, detect recurrent disease and manage late effects of treatment).
31691	Some treatment include liver transplantation to replace the liver with a cadaver liver or a live donor lobe. If the tumor disease has spread, the immuno-suppressant post-transplant drugs decrease the chance of survival. Another form of treatment is surgical resection to remove a tumor to treat small or slow-growing tumors if they are diagnosed early. This treatment offers the best prognosis for long-term survival but is possible possible in only 10-15% of cases. Resection in cirrhotic patients brigns with it high morbidity and mortality.
31692	There is no specific treatment for the disease. However, laxatives are given to lower reduce the onset of the symptoms. Liver transplant is sometimes done to repair the liver, but it doesn't necessarily guarantee the reversal of brain damage.
31694	The treatment is done via surgery, if the tumor is detected at its early stages of development. Chemotherapy is also done in advanced stages. The survival rate among hepatoma patients is poor.
31695	Treatment of an enlarged liver depends on the cause, like alcohol abuse, hepatitis, heart failure, liver cancer, etc.
31696	Treatment is aimed at improving liver function and ensuring that the amount of blood in the body and the heart pumping action are enough. The disorder is typically treated in the same manner as kidney failure from any other cause. Dialysis may generally improve symptoms. There are medications such as albumin, octreotide, and dopamine which may be used as a temporary measure to improve kidney function.
31697	Therapies include melphalan, a chemotherapy agent also used to treat certain types of cancer, and dexamethasone, a corticosteroid used for its anti-inflammatory effects. Researchers are investigating other kinds of chemotherapy regimens for amyloidosis. Several medications that are used in the treatment of multiple myeloma are being tested for their ability to stop amyloidosis.
31698	The aim of acute treatment is to stop progression of the edema as quickly as possible, which can be life-saving, particularly if the swelling is in the larynx. In an emergency, fresh frozen blood plasma, which also contains C1-INH, can also be utilized. Fresh Frozen Plasma (FFP) can also be used as an alternative to C1-INH concentrate.
31699	Management is typically directed at providing assistance for coordination problems through established methods of rehabilitation medicine and occupational and physical therapy. Canes, walkers, and wheelchairs are especially useful for gait ataxia. Speech therapy may be beneficial for persons with dysarthria. Computer devices are available to aid persons with severe speech deficits.
31700	There is currently no specific treatment known that can halt or reverse the symptoms of Batten disease. However, seizures can sometimes be reduced or controlled with anticonvulsant drugs, and other medical problems can be treated appropriately as they occur. Physical therapy and occupational therapy may aid patients in retaining functioning as long as possible.
31701	While there is no cure for this condition, there are preventative measures people can take to control symptoms. A diet high in carbohydrates, as well as avoidance of aggravating factors (such as alcohol and drug use) can hinder attacks
31702	Ideally, the team evaluating and treating the deaf individual should be made up of an otolaryngologist with expertise in the management of early childhood otologic disorders, an audiologist experienced in the assessment of hearing loss in children, a clinical geneticist, and a pediatrician. The expertise of an educator of the deaf, a neurologist, and a pediatric ophthalmologist may also be needed
31704	The vast majority of those with hereditary elliptocytosis need no treatment whatsoever. They have a slightly increased risk of developing gallstones, which is treated surgically with a cholecystectomy if pain becomes problematic. Folate helps to reduce the extent of haemolysis in those with significant haemolysis resulting from hereditary elliptocytosis. Because the spleen is the bodily organ which breaks down old and worn-out blood cells, those individuals with more severe forms of hereditary elliptocytosis can have a splenomegaly which leads to a worsening of the signs and symptoms of their anaemia.
31705	Complete elimination of fructose and sucrose from the diet is an effective treatment for most individuals. Individual complications are treated as needed. For example, some patients can take medication to lower the level of uric acid in their blood and thereby reducing their risk for gout.
31706	Early diagnosis is important because the late effects of iron accumulation can be wholly prevented by periodic phlebotomies comparable in volume to blood donations. Treatment is commenced when ferritin levels reach 300 milligrams per litre (or 200 in nonpregnant premenopausal women).
31707	There is no specific treatment for HHT. Anemia as a result of bleeding from digestive tract AVMs often necessitates repeated blood transfusions. AVMs in critical organs often require surgery.
31708	Blood transfusions may occasionally be needed for the treatment of hereditary nonspherocytic hemolytic anemia.
31709	There is no known treatment for the disease, although complications such as malnutrition can be treated with supplimentary pancreatic enzymes.
31710	There is no specific treatment for the disease; the symptoms can only be managed. Physical and occupational therapy are done to strengthen the muscles and prevent degeneration. Braces and other orthopedic devices meanwhile are used to keep the skeletal structure from collapsing.
31711	There are no specific treatments to prevent, slow down, or reverse HSP. Symptomatic treatments used for other forms of chronic paraplegia may sometimes be helpful. Regular physical therapy is a crucial factor for improving muscle strength and preserving range of motion.
31712	As in non-hereditary spherocytosis, acute symptoms of anemia and hyperbilirubinemia point to treatment with blood transfusions or exchanges and chronic symptoms of anemia and splenomegaly point to dietary supplementation of iron and splenectomy, the surgical removal of the spleen. Experimental gene therapy exists to treat hereditary spherocytosis in lab mice; however, this treatment has not yet been administered on humans and because of the risks involved in human gene therapy, it may never be.
31713	There is no specific treatment for these diseases; proper diet and drug supplements are prescribed to retard the progress of the disease.
31714	Treatment for Hermansky-Pudlak syndrome concentrates on minimizing the complications of bleeding, monitoring the lungs and kidneys for damage by ceroid, and frequent skin checks by a dermatologist to watch for skin cancer. A computed tomography (CT) scan can search for any hidden internal bleeding as well as check for organ damage. Avoiding smoking and receiving prompt treatment for any respiratory infections will help promote healthy lungs. Physical therapy, low vision aids, and frequent doctor check-ups will also promote health. Unfortunately, many people with Hermansky-Pudlak syndrome die from its complications, especially due to lung damage.
31715	Ideally, a team of healthcare professionals with expertise in intersex should work as a group to understand and treat the child with intersex - and to understand, counsel, and support the entire family.
31716	In general, all hernias should be repaired unless severe pre-existing medical conditions make surgery unsafe. The possible exception to this is a hernia with a huge opening.
31717	These hernias may not need treatment since the condition often resolves after a period of time.
31718	Surgical correction of inguinal hernias, called a herniorrhaphy or hernioplasty, is now usually performed as an ambulatory, or "day surgery," procedure. There are several surgical strategies which may be considered in the planning of inguinal hernia repair. These include the consideration of type of open repair, mesh use, use of laparoscopy, type of anesthesia, appropriateness of bilateral repair, etc. During surgery conducted under local anaesthesia, the patient will be asked to cough and strain during the procedure to help in demonstrating that the repair is free of tension and sound.
31719	An umbilical hernia can be fixed in 2 different ways. The surgeon can choose to stitch the walls of the abdominal or he/she can place mesh over the opening and stitch it to the abdominal walls. The latter is of a stronger hold and is frequently used for larger tears in the abdominal wall. Most surgeons will fix the hernia 6 weeks after the baby is born.
31720	Usually a herniated disc will heal on its own over time. About half of people with a herniated disc get better within one month, and most are better after 6 months. However, only about 1 person in 10 still has enough pain after 6 weeks to think about surgery.
31721	Antibiotics are not effective against herpangina. The important issues are getting children plenty of fluids, relieving their pain, and treating their other symptoms as needed.
31722	Currently, there is no treatment that can eradicate any of the herpes viruses from the body. Non-prescription analgesics can reduce pain and fever on initial outbreaks. Topical anesthetic treatment (such as prilocaine, lidocaine or tetracaine) may relieve itching and pain.
31723	For mild herpes gestiationis, topical creams are prescribed. Corticosteroids are also administered to prevent inflammation.
31724	The disease responds effectively to medications such as idoxuridine and vidarabine.
31725	Unlike other sexually transmitted diseases, herpes cannot be cured because medication that will attack the virus while it lies dormant in the nerve cells will also end up damaging the nerve cells. However, there is treatment available for acute outbreaks that involves the administration of anti-viral drugs such as Acyclovir, Valaclovir or Famcyclovir.
31726	The role of Acyclovir is crucial to the treatment of HSE. If therapy can be initiated during the first few days of the illness there is a dramatic reduction in the mortality rate - c.80% down to 25%.
31727	Genital herpes has no known cure yet. However, oral prescription antiviral medications, including acyclovir (Zovirax), a famciclovir (Famvir) and valacyclovir (Valtrex) may treat and help heal the sores sooner and reduce the frequency of relapses. These medications may also reduce the chance you'll infect your partner with the herpes virus, if taken daily.
31728	Antiviral medications given by mouth may decrease pain and shorten the course of the symptoms, and if untreated, the symptoms will generally subside in 1 t0 2 weeks. The doctor may recommend that you take the medicines all the time if the virus returns frequently. To minimize the spread of the virus to other areas of skin, wash blisters gently with water and soap.
31729	Herpes simplex virus infection has no cure. Untreated HSV infections will go away on their own, but medications can shorten the duration of outbreaks and reduce the symptoms. Oral antiviral medications such as famciclovir pills, acyclovir pills and valacyclovir pills serve as treatment for herpes simplex virus infection.
31730	Although there is no known cure for herpes, some drugs have been effective in reducing the frequency and duration of outbreaks.
31731	Antiviral drugs inhibit VZV replication and decrease the severity and duration of herpes zoster with minimal side effects, but do not reliably prevent postherpetic neuralgia. Of these, aciclovir had been the standard of care; the new drugs valaciclovir and famciclovir demonstrate similar or superior efficacy or safety/tolerability.
31732	Some cases of HZ oticus do not require treatment. If treatment is needed, medications, antiviral drugs, corticosteroids, and diazepam (for vertigo) may prove effective. Although there is no reliable evidence that corticosteroids, antiviral drugs, or surgical decompression makes a difference, they are the only possibly effective treatments. Corticosteroids are initiated with prednisone.
31733	The treatment of HSV keratitis is aciclovir eye cream 5 times a day for 10 days. Depending on the particular ulcer, a different treatment time, and occasionally different drugs, will be needed. With prompt treatment the patient get a 100% recovery.
31734	Your physician may prescribe antiviral medications in order to help relieve symptoms and to prevent spread of the infection to other people such as famciclovir pills, topial acyclovir ointment, acyclovir pills and valacyclovir pills.
31736	Few patients with HHH Syndrome have been treated from an early age, before the onset of disabling symptoms. Dietary restriction of protein is the basic treatment, with supporting therapy for the prevention and control the hyperammonemia. A trial of Ornithine, Arginine, or Citrulline supplementation may decrease plasma ammonia.
31737	In most cases, sufferers experience no discomfort and no treatment is required. But, when the hiatal hernia is large, or is of the paraesophageal type, it is likely to cause esophageal stricture and discomfort. Symptomatic patients could elevate the head of their beds and avoid lying down directly after meals until treatment is rendered.
31738	One technique is to increase carbon dioxide levels in the blood, which may reduce the sensitivity of the vagus nerve in the brain. That nerve, one of the longest in the body, sends signals to many muscle groups, including those in the diaphragm. One can increase carbon dioxide levels by holding one's breath, by rebreathing the air exhaled into a paper bag for a few minutes, or by slowly sipping a glass of water without pausing to take a breath.
31739	Treatments depend on the state of the affected areas and whether the sores are painful or infected. Mild cases can be treated with self-care measures, which includes warm compresses and regular washings with antibacterial soap. Moderate cases may need medications, such as those you rub on the affected areas (topical medications) or those you take by mouth (oral medications).
31740	When one experiences signs of the sickness while traveling, the immediate response is to descend to lower altitudes for him to grasp enough oxygen. Headache medications should also be administered, but if the patient doesn't respond to these, it is best to bring him to the hospital for proper medical care.
31741	The immediate response to high altitude pulmonary edema is to bring the person to lower altitudes in order to grasp for air. When he doesn't show signs of recovery, take him to the nearest hospital for proper medical assistance.
31742	Clinical Evidence has summarized treatment for both primary prevention and secondary prevention. There are two factors to consider when choosing therapy are the patient's risk of coronary disease and their lipoprotein pattern.
31743	In a child older that 1 year, closed reduction alone may be impossible. Open reduction is required for this. This involves making an incision to expose the hip at surgery, decreasing the hip under direct vision, and stabilizing the hip by reinforcing the hip capsule. The child is then fitted in a hip spica cast.
31744	Among the treatment of hip labral tear include physical therapy, pain medications as well as corticosteroids injections. In severe cases, treatments are mostly administered to manage pain and provide relief and reduce inflammation of the joints. Surgical may also be required.
31745	Surgery is the only known proven and effective treatment for Hirschsprung's disease. The procedure is known as pull-through surgery and involves removing the section of the colon that has no ganglia cells, then connecting the remaining healthy end of the colon to the rectum.
31746	Many women with unwanted hair seek methods of hair removal for management of the appearance of hirsutism. But the actual causes should be checked by physicians, who can conduct blood tests, pinpoint the specific origin of the abnormal hair growth, and advise on the best course of treatment.
31747	Dietary treatment based on low-histidine lowers the blood histidine level.
31748	This disorder is treated with corticosteroids, which inhibits immune function (including the dangerous cells). Smoking may exacerbate the response to treatment and should be stopped.
31749	Antifungal medications are utilized to treat severe cases of acute histoplasmosis and all cases of chronic and disseminated disease. Typical treatment of severe disease initially involves treatment with amphotericin B, followed by oral itraconazole. In many milder cases, simply itraconazole is enough. Past infection leads to partial protection against ill effects if reinfected.
31750	Because of the absence of research support for work on personality disorders and long-term treatment with psychotherapy, the empirical findings on the treatment of these disorders remain based on the case report method and not on clinical trials.
31751	It can be quite challenging to find the specific treatment for hives. However, it is important that identify triggers to the reaction such as medication, food or even physical stimulus. It can also be a symptom of another serious condition that needs to be diagnosed. Oral histamines are among the primary medications.
31752	Hoarding pshychotherapy and medications.
31753	Treatment for laryngitis depends on the underlying cause, though acute laryngitis caused by a virus often gets better on its own within a week or so. Home treatment can help with symptoms: breathe moist air, rest the voice as much as possible, drink plenty of fluids to prevent dehydration (avoid alcohol and caffeine), treat the underlying cause of laryngitis, such as heartburn, smoking or alcoholism, suck lozenges, gargle salt water or chew a piece of gum - this won't help the vocal cords, but can ease throat irritation.
31754	Treatment options include radiation, chemotherapy (ABVD, BEACOPP, COPP/ABVD, Stanford V, and MOPP), and bone marrow transplant.
31755	Because of the acute and fulminant initial presentation, treatment is almost always started in the hospital. Once treatment has begun and the acute signs and symptoms have gone away, the child may be safely discharged and observed on an outpatient basis.
31756	There is no known standard course of treatment for holoprosencephaly. Treatment for holoprosencephaly is supportive and symptomatic.
31757	Treatment of Holt-Oram syndrome is concetrated on treating the symptoms. Large heart defects can result to heart failure, so a cardiologist will need to be consulted. Children with severe arm defects can be referred to orthopedic surgeons to help improve arm function.
31758	No particular cure has been discovered for homocystinuria; however, many people are treated using high doses of vitamin B6 (also known as pyridoxine). Slightly less than 50% respond to this treatment and are required to take supplemental vitamin B6 for the rest of their lives. Those who do not respond need a low methionine diet, and most will need treatment with trimethylglycine. A normal dose of folic acid supplement and sometimes added cysteine in the diet is helpful.
31759	The hookworm can be treated with cryotherapy when it is still within the skin. Albendazole is effective both in the intestinal stage and during the stage the parasite is still migrating beneath the skin.
31760	If the doctor confirms the sty, he or she may prescribe a topical antibiotic cream to apply to the eyelid. To treat a pus-filled sty that won't rupture or burst on its own, the doctor or ophthalmologist may choose to lance and drain the sty to relieve pain and pressure. Usually sty treatment doesn't require oral antibiotics unless there is a generalized infection of the eyelid.
31762	It is not needed to treat Horner's syndrome. The syndrome is painless and does not interfere with vision.
31763	There is no known cure for horseshoe kidney. Instead, the treatment is targeted at the accompanying diseases, such as urinary tract infections and hydronephrosis. The prognosis is positive in the long term, and usually the function of the kidneys will not be affected.
31764	Hot flashes normally subside without the help of medications. For season-induced hot flashes, it is advised to stay indoors or in places with good ventilation.
31765	Folliculitis goes away without medical treatment within two to three days for some people. Self-care measure, such as warm compresses and anti-itch creams can help relieve symptoms during that time. Your therapy doctor will recommend treatments depending on the type and severity of your infection and if it is a persistent or recurring case which will really require treatment.
31766	The skin is treated with a keratolytic (such as salicylic acid) to dissolve the excess skin, and systemic treatment with retinoids (derivatives of Vitamin A) may be administered.
31767	There's no cure for HPV infection, though in most cases, the immune system rids the body of the virus, and warts often go away without treatment.
31768	There are three medications available for the treatment of genital herpes are: aciclovir, valaciclovir and famciclovir.
31769	Treatment of the disease is done by aspirin medications to prevent platelet activation, as well a Warfarin to be used as an anticoagulant. Pregnant women meanwhile are given low-molecular weight heparin and low-dose aspirin to treat the disease.
31771	Patients suspected of having human granulocytic ehrlichiosis (HGE) should be treated with a tetracycline-class antibiotic while awaiting the results of confirmatory laboratory testing.
31772	Over the counter medications to kill lice Prescription medications: malathion (ovide), lindane
31773	There is currently no vaccine or cure for HIV, however, an antiretroviral treatment, known as post-exposure prophylaxis, is believed to decrease the risk of infection if begun directly after exposure. Current treatment for HIV infection is made up of highly active antiretroviral therapy, or HAART. Current HAART choices are combinations (or "cocktails") consisting of at least three drugs belonging to at least two types, or "classes," of antiretroviral agents.
31774	There's no cure for HPV infection, though in most cases, the immune system rids the body of the virus, and warts often go away without treatment.
31775	Treatment for connective tissue diseases and other autoimmune conditions suspected of being triggered by chronic Human Parvovirus B19 infection include immunosuppressive and immunomodulatory therapy with agents including prednisone, hydroxychloroquine, cyclophosphamide, non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs and etanercept. None of these therapies, however, have caused a complete resolution of symptoms.
31777	Exercises to strengthen back muscles, training in using correct posture and sleeping on a firm bed may be helpful. Pain relievers may help alleviate discomfort if exercise and physical therapies aren't fully effective.
31778	The main point to recovery from Ramsay Hunt syndrome is the effective treatment of the varicella-zoster virus. Anti-viral medications, such as Acyclovir or Famciclovir are prescribed for 7 to 10 days along with strong anti-inflammatory steroids (such as Prednisolone) for 3 to 5 days which are tapered off in about a week.
31779	Because there is no cure for Hunter syndrome, treatment concentrates on managing signs and symptoms and to provide relief to the patient as the disease progresses. Some treatments may involve the following: relief for respiratory complications; addressing cardiac complications; treatment for skeletal and connective tissue problems; and managing neurological complications.
31780	Symptoms of the condition can only be managed through medications but it cannot prevent the patient's physical and mental decline. Medications may also have side effects to the patient such as fatigue, hyperexcitability, and restlessness. The patient may also undergo speech therapy, or physical and occupational therapy.
31781	There is no treatment to fully stop the progression of the disease, but symptoms can be reduced or alleviated through the use of medication and care methods. Huntington mice models exposed to better husbandry techniques, especially better access to food and water, lived dramatically longer than mice that were not well cared for.
31782	Enzyme replacement therapies are currently in use, BioMarin Pharmaceutical provides therapeutics for mucopolysaccaradosis type I (MPS I), by manufacturing laronidase, popularized by Genzyme. Enzyme replacement therapy has proven effective in reducing non-neurological symptoms and pain.
31783	Surgery is the frequently recommended approach to Hurthle cell cancer treatment. Either a portion or nearly all of the thyroid gland may be removed (near total thyroidectomy). After surgery, affected patients are often given thyroid hormone medication to replace the hormones that are no longer produced by the absent thyroid. In addition, the following treatment options are available for Hurthle cell cancer patients: radioactive iodine therapy and external beam radiation.
31784	Treatments are primarily targeted for treating the child's syphilis, but teeth straightening may be done to help achieve aesthetic results.
31785	No treatments have been proven useful for progeria. Most treatment focuses on decreasing complications such as cardiovascular disease, such as heart bypass surgery or low-dose aspirin.
31786	Treatments include Metronidazole 400-600mg, Albendazole, Surgical, Aspiration, Marsupialization, Omentopexy, Laminated Membrane Removal and Mebendazole to prevent recurrences.
31787	Hydatidiform moles should be treated by evacuating the uterus by uterine suction or by surgical curettage as early as possible after diagnosis, in order to avoid the risks of choriocarcinoma. Patients are followed up until their serum human chorionic gonadotrophin (hCG) level has decreased to an undetectable level. Invasive or metastatic moles (cancer) may need chemotherapy and often respond well to methotrexate. The response to treatment is almost 100%. Patients are told not to conceive for one year after a molar pregnancy. The probability of having another molar pregnancy are approximately 1%. Management is more complex when the mole occurs together with one or more normal fetuses. Carboprost medication may be used to make the uterus contract.
31788	Treatment includes: metronidazole 400-600mg; albendazole; surgical; aspiration; marsupialization; omentopexy; laminated membrane removal; and mebendazole to prevent recurrence.
31789	There is no known treatment for hydranencephaly. Treatment of hydranencephaly is supportive and symptomatic. Hydrocephalus may be treated with a shunt, which is a surgically implanted tube that diverts fluid from one pathway to another.
31790	For baby boys, hydroceles generally disappear on their own within a year. If a hydrocele doesn't disappear after a year or if it continues to enlarge, it may be required to be surgically removed. For adult males as well, hydroceles typically go away on their own. A hydrocele requires treatment only if it gets large enough to result to discomfort or disfigurement. Then it may need to be taken out.
31791	Hydrocephalus treatment is surgical, which involves the placement of a ventricular catheter (a tube made of silastic), into the cerebral ventricles to bypass the flow obstruction/malfunctioning arachnoidal granulations and drain the excess fluid into other body cavities, from where it can be resorbed. Most shunts drain the fluid into the peritoneal cavity (ventriculo-peritoneal shunt), but other sites include the right atrium (ventriculo-atrial shunt), pleural cavity (ventriculo-pleural shunt), and gallbladder.
31792	Surgical treatment is preformed on the patient in order to drain the excess fluids down to the abdominal cavity.
31793	Treatment largely depends on the cause and the severity of the obstruction. Some blockages, such as from blood clots or a kidney stone, can heal itself without treatment. Surgery may be needed to relieve the blockage, though, rarely is surgical removal of the kidney be required.
31794	Relaxation, exercise, and diet play a big role in alleviating the anxieties of a person suffering from hydrophobia.
31795	The treatment depends on the cause of the disease. Severely anemic fetuses can be treated with blood transfusions while still inside the mother's womb.
31796	Hydrisyringomyelia can be treated by surgery. Surgical operation is done to stop spinal cord damage and maximize the functions of the spinal cord. Vasoconstrictors meanwhile help reduce the formation of fluids within the spinal cord.
31797	The swelling can be resolved by cortisone injections in the affected areas. Adequate rest and cold compress applications are also recommended.
31798	Praziquantel as a single dose (25 mg/kg) is the current treatment of choice for hymenolepiasis and has a success rate of 96%. Single dose albendazole (400 mg) is also very effective (>95%). Niclosamide has also been administered. A three-day course of nitazoxanide is 75-93% effective. The dose is 1g daily for adults and children over 12; 400mg daily for children aged 4 to 11 years; and 200mg daily for children aged 3 years and below.
31799	The disorder is treated with chronic antibiotics to prevent recurrence of staphylococcal infections. High-dose intravenous gamma-globulin is also a suggested treatment for eczema caused by the disease.
31800	There are no specific or standard treatments for preventing the attacks. Affected individuals can expect recurrent fever bouts all through their life; however attacks have the tendency to lessen in frequency after an individual's adolescence.
31801	Small studies have suggested that certain medications may be helpful. Several forms of psychotherapy may help in treating hypersexuality, such as psychodynamic psychotherapy, cognitive behavior therapy, and family therapy or marriage counseling.
31802	Cushing's syndrome patients must stop any or all steroid medication. If an adrenal adenoma is present, it can be removed surgically. Corticotrophic pituitary adenoma, which secretes ACTH, must be removed once a diagnosis is made. Most patients will need steroid replacement for the short or long-term. For those who are unsuitable for surgery, some drugs are available to inhibit cortisol production. However, their efficacy is limited. In the absence of a tumor, adrenals may still be removed to stop an overproduction of cortisol. If this happens, replacement with hydrocortisone or prednisolone must be done as well.
31803	Upon diagnosis, the physician must check the adrenal glands to determine the presence of any possible adenomas. Medical or surgical treatment may vary according to the number of tumors found. Treatment or removal of the tumors will alleviate high blood pressure in most patients. To control high blood pressure, antihypertensive drugs such as calcium channel blockers may be prescribed. Additionally, diuretics can be taken to abate hypertension. The most common medication prescribed for Hyperaldosterism patients is spironolactone, which helps manage aldosterone levels but has several possible side effects depending on the amount of dosage.
31804	Initial treatment for hyperammonemia includes the immediate restriction of protein and certain specific amino acids. Stopping protein intake is imperative in early management. To compensate for the protein loss, several nonprotein calories can be administered via intravenous or oral means, or both. More specific treatments will depend on the specific cause of the disorder. In some cases, there is a need for Hemodialysis, intravenous sodium phenylacetate/benzoate (Ammonul), or both.
31805	The treatment for hyperandrogenism depends largely on the goals of the patient. Patients may, for example, opt to focus on restoring fertility for reproductive pruposes. Others may give more weight to treating hirsutism or acne. Still others would prefer to restore regular menstruation and prevent endometrial hyperplasia and even endometrial cancer. In all these focal points for treatment, debate continues on the most optimal route. To date, there is a distinct lack of large-scale clinical trials to compare and assess various forms of hyperandrogenism treatment. Common forms of treatment focus on helping reduce weight and insulin resistance. Because PCOS in particular is associated with obesity, weight management or weight loss is believed to restore normal menstruation. Most patients are prescribed drugs to lower insulin. Examples of this are metformin hydrochloride (Glucophage), pioglitazone hydrochloride (Actos), and rosiglitazone maleate (Avandia). These insulin-lowering drugs are reported to have restored normal ovulation among patients.
31806	Treatment for hyperbilirubinemia is dependent on the cause of the disease as well as the amount of bilirubin in the body. The primary goal of treatment is to regulate bilirubin levels and prevent it from reaching dangerously elevated amounts. Treatment strategies may include phototherapy, fiberoptic blanket, exchange transfusion, restricting breastfeeding for 1-2 days, as well as treating any underlying causes (e.g. infections).
31807	General intervention focuses on treating hypercalcaemia first, and then the underlying cause next. Initial treatment may consist of fluids and diuretics to improve hydration, as most patients are dehydrated from too much vomiting or because of renal defects. A boost in salt intake can also improve the volume of body fluids, thus increasing urine sodium excretion which, in turn, improves urinary calcium excretion. Subsequently, additional treatments in the form of bisphosphonates and calcitonin are needed. Bisphosphonates, or pyrophosphate analogues with high affinity for bone, are particularly therapeutic for areas with high bone loss. Calcitonin, meanwhile, is to block bone resorption as well as augment urinary calcum excretion. Calcitonin is frequently necessary for life-threatening levels of hypercalcaemia and helps prevent its recurrence.
31808	Hypercholesterolemia patients are strongly advised to change their diets. Patients need to drastically alter their eating habits and increase their physical activity. In extreme cases, food supplements are needed to help manage cholesterol. Medications are also commonly prescribed in combination with physical exercise and low cholesterol intake. To date, statins are popular for their efficacy in treating hypercholesterolemia. Further, recent clinical practice guidelines are promoting lipid-lowering therapy for cardiovascular disease prevention, statins as a primary form of treatment, and vigilant monitoring of cholesterol levels.
31809	The mode of treatment will depend primarily on a patient's lipid level, risk for heart disease, and general wellbeing. Generally, the first step in Hyperchylomicronemia therapy is some drastic lifestyle changes that include diet modifications, an increase in physical activity, and of course, weight loss. In most cases, medication is recommended to lower lipid levels. This includes statin, bile acid sequestrants, fibrates, and niacin, among others. Classification and Treatment Hyperchylomicronemia Type I, known as the Buerger-Gruetz syndrome or familial hyperchylomicronemia, is marked by a decrease in lipoprotein lipase (LPL) or altered ApoC2. Type I is commonly diagnosed when elevated levels of Chylomicrons are found in lab tests. Diet control is the common treatment. Hyperchylomicronemia Type IIa, known as Polygenic hypercholesterolaemia or Familial hypercholesterolemia, is characterized by a deficiency in LDL receptors. Treatment for Type IIa is usually bile acid sequestrants, statins, and niacin. Hyperchylomicronemia Type IIb, or combined Hyperchylomicronemia, is characterized by a decrease in LDL receptors and an increase in ApoB. Elevated LDL and VLDL and Triglycerides are indicative of this form. Statins, Niacin, Gemfibrozil are used in treatment. Hyperchylomicronemia Type III, or Familial Dysbetalipoproteinemia, is marked by a defect in ApoE synthesis. An increase in IDL is a diagnostic sign of this form. Gemfibrozil is the drug of choice for Type II therapy. Hyperchylomicronemia Type IV, known as Endogenous Hyperlipemia, is characterized by an overproduction of VLDL and decreased excretion of the same. In Type III treatment, Niacin is often the drug of choice. Hyperchylomicronemia Type V, or Familial Hypertriglyceridemia, demonstrates an increase in production of VLDL and a decrease in LPL production. Niacin and Gemfibrozil are frequently used in treatment.
31810	Treatments for Cushing's syndrome are designed to lower the high level of cortisol in the body. The best treatment for the person depends on the cause of the syndrome.
31811	Treatments include intake of normal saline solution until the vomiting subsides.
31812	Treatment of the syndrome mainly consists of lessening the eosinophil levels, as well as the prevention of further organ damage. Corticosteroids are used to reduce the level of eosinophil, while antineoplastics are helpful in slowing down the production of eosinophil. Surgical therapies are seldom used, but splenectomy may reduce pain caused by spleen enlargement. Prosthetic valves are used to replace heart valve damage.
31813	Treatment is mainly with administration of medications. The syndrome's neurological characteristics may usually be managed with clonazepam drug. In a number of cases, diazepam, valproic acid, and Phenobarbital have been found helpful.
31814	Treatment requires the elimination of any underlying cause, such as treatment of diabetes. Other treatments include drinking more water, exercising more, changing eating habits, and changing medications.
31815	The best way to treat the condition is by regular checking of blood sugar levels. Special diets are also recommended to keep the blood sugar at normal rates.
31816	Treatment is generally supportive and medical. Sodium benzoate may be administered to conjugate with glycine and reduce CSF and plasma. Arginine also helps facilitate glycine transminidation. Other treatments include anticonvulsant therapy and protein restriction in diet.
31817	Hyperhidrosis is typically very successfully controlled, but a permanent cure has not been found yet due to little knowledge of the exact cause behind the disorder. Some treatments include medications, surgical procedures, and others like weight loss and meditation.
31818	Unlike other types of thrombophilic disorders, Hyperhomocysteinemia may be directly treated with the use of vitamin supplementation. Folate is primarily the vitamin used in lowering the levels of homocysteine. However, this supplementation is not sufficient to normalize the levels of homocysteine in affected individuals, thus several other medications can be administered.
31820	The treatment of the condition should be individualized basing on underlying cause, symptom severity, emergence of ECG changes, and overall health of affected individual. Hyperkalemia treatments may include low-potassium diet, intravenous calcium, intravenous insulin and glucose, administration of sodium bicarbonate, diuretic administration, other medications, and the discontinuance of medicines that increase levels of potassium in blood.
31821	Treatment for HYPP is geared towards symptom relief and prevention of further attacks. In most cases, the severity of the attacks may require emergency care. Weakness, however, worsens with repeated attacks. Therefore, steps must be taken to prevent further attacks as early as possible. During attacks, ingestion of glucose and other carbohydrates may reduce severity. Calcium or diuretics may be administered intravenously to stop sudden attacks.
31822	The disease, once detected, can be treated by correction of pH and electrolyte balance using alkali therapy.
31823	Hyperlexia treatment attempts to manage distressing symptoms and to teach age-appropriate social, communication and vocational skills that are not naturally acquired during development, with intervention tailored to the needs of the individual child, based on multidisciplinary assessment. However, progress has been made, data supporting the efficacy of particular interventions are limited.
31825	Hypermagnesemia can be treated by intravenous calcium gluconate, intravenous diuretics and dialysis, in order to withdraw excess amounts of magnesium.
31826	Where an underlying cause can be identified, treatment may be targeted at this. Clearly heavy periods at the beginning and end of a women's reproductive years may settle spontaneously (the menopause being the cessation of periods).
31827	Hypermobility syndrome can be improved usually by proper exercise, physical therapy and hydrotherapy. Pilates and other forms of low-impact exercises can also help reduce the effects of the disease. If swelling occurs, anti-inflammatory drugs can be prescribed.
31828	Hypernatremia can be treated by oral as well as intravenous water replacement.
31829	Various eye care professionals, such as ophthalmologists, optometrists, orthoptists, and opticians, are involved in the treatment and management of hyperopia. At the end of an eye examination, an eye doctor may provide the patient with an eyeglass prescription for corrective lenses.
31830	Treatment options include medications, dietary modifications, and high intake of fluid. Pyridoxine is a medication administered for reducing oxalate amounts produced by the liver. Citrate and neutral phosphates are also efficient in diminishing calcium oxalate stone and crystals in urine.
31831	In hyperparathyroidism, the first priority for treatment is managing hypercalcemia, especially if affected symptomatic individuals require surgery to remove the parathyroid tumor. Because recent findings suggest that the disease will gradually worsen and progress, experts now recommend that all hyperthyroidism patients should be evaluated for surgery. If surgery is not an option, calcium levels, bone density, and the presence of kidney stones must be monitored closely.
31832	2-4% of hydroquinone, tazarotene, hydroquinone, azelaic acid and glycolic acid are some products or some creams that may help fade dark marks and are often used in combination. Not generally covered by insurance, chemical peels or microdermabrasion are treatments that need to be repeated monthly for a total of 4-6 sessions, and they may cause further darkening and irritation if not done by experts.
31835	According to studies, restricting dietary proline early on has been found to result in a drastic drop in the proline's plasma levels to within the normal range. A diet that is low in proline has been credited as an effective treatment option. However, during the dietary treatment period, studies revealed that while growth was good, mental development was not satisfactory.
31836	Treatment for hyperreflexia is dependent upon the diagnosis of the particular pathology that triggered the symptom. If caused by ingesting medication and stimulants, these drugs may be stopped completely or removed from their healthcare.
31837	Small studies have suggested that certain medications may be helpful. Several forms of psychotherapy may help in treating hypersexuality, such as psychodynamic psychotherapy, cognitive behavior therapy, and family therapy or marriage counseling.
31838	Treatment is done by managing the symptoms. Stimulants such as amphetamine may be prescribed to keep one awake during the day. One's biological clock should also be fixed by following a sleeping schedule. Caffeine drinks should be avoided.
31839	There are a number of medications availble to manage hypertension. Lifestyle changes, adhereing to a strict diet and regular exercise is also impornat to alleviate the risks of heart attacks. Surgical procedures may also be required to cure other internbal complications.
31840	The only cure for pregnancy-related hypertension is delivery of the baby. There is an increased risk of seizures, placental abruption and severe bleeding until the blood pressure decreases. Of course, if it's too early in the pregnancy, delivery may not be the best thing for the baby.
31841	The best treatment for the disease is by management of the symptoms. Avoid sudden irritations as well as foods that can trigger hypertension.
31842	Treating hypertensive retinopathy usually involves limiting, reversing, or preventing further damage on the retina by decreasing the affected patient's blood pressure. Regular eye examinations are also important to monitor the healing process.
31843	Treatment would primarily require avoidance to direct sun exposure as well as indulging in strenuous activities that may cause over exhaustion. Patients with heart problems as well as elderly should also avoid overly warm environment.
31844	The major and the generally accepted modes for treatment of hyperthyroidism among humans primarily involve the initial temporary utilization of suppressive thyrostatics medications. Radioisotope therapy and permanent surgical procedure may also present an alternative for sever cases as well as the supplementation of levothryoxine.
31845	There is no treatment for the hypertrichosis. While growing hair can be managed by shaving, people with this disorder use this feature rather as a form of entertainment, as they can be seen performing in places such as a circus.
31846	Treatment for HCM must focus on managing risk for sudden cardiac death. Patients who may have high propensity for sudden cardiac death may undergo defibrillator therapy. Treating HCM focuses on lowering the ventricular outflow tract gradient and managing dyspnea, chest pain, and syncope. Medical therapy often involves administering beta-blockers (e.g. metoprolol, atenolol, bisoprolol, propranolol). When symptoms persist, disopyramide may be administered in conjunction with the beta-blockade. An alternative route is to substitute the beta-blocker with a calcium channel blocker like verapamil. Most HCM symptoms can be treated medically without necessitating surgical interventions. But more severe cases may require surgical septal myectomy, alcohol septal ablation or pacing.
31847	Treatment for hypertropia may include prescription of eyeglasses to correct the refractive errors. Prism therapy, if tolerated, may also aid in managing diplopia. Patching is used particularly in treating amblyopia in kids and diplopia in adults. Botulinum toxin botox injection and surgical correction are also recommended.
31848	For asthmatics, hyperventilation is treated by inhalers to widen the air passageways. Meanwhile, it can also be reduced through deep, slow breathing to help relax the airways.
31849	Until very recently, Hyper IgM syndrome patients have been commonly treated with immunoglobulin replacement therapy. Most patients are still undergoing this lifelong treatment. However, due to the high turnout of malignant liver diseases, bone marrow transplantation (or BMT) is now a more acceptable form of treatment for affected individuals. Illegible candidates for BMT can be successfully cured of Hyper IgM syndrome.
31850	Treatment is done after knowing what caused the bleeding. Adequate rest and eye care is recommended to help stop the bleeding.
31851	Upon diagnosis, hydrocortisone replacement for cortisol must be started immediately. Often, after initial treatment, patients will be referred to a specialist endocrine unit. Specialists may then recommend replacement therapy for cortisol. The most popular to date is hydrocortisone, which is very similar to normal cortisol. The focus of hypoadrenalism treatment is to keep cortisol levels high in the morning, and lower in the afternoon and evening. These levels simulate the normal fluctuation of cortisol in the body during the day.
31852	Florinef/fludrocortisone is given to patients with severe mineralocorticoid deficiencies with significant metabolic acidosis and hyperkalemia. Loop diuretics are used for elderly patients to avoid risk of hypertension due to fluid status. Patients are generally advised to stay clear of drugs that aggravate the condition such as ACE inhibitors, beta blockers, prostaglandin synthetase inhibitors (NSAID) and potassium-sparing diuretics.
31853	In mild forms of hypocalcemia, the patient is injected with calcium gluconate. In severe cases, calcium chloride is given. Patients are also required to take calcium and vitamin D supplements to prevent the condition from getting worse.
31854	To treat hypochondria, one must acknowledge the interplay of body and mind. If a person is sick with a medical disease such as diabetes or arthritis, there will be often psychological consequences, such as depression. A person with psychological issues such as depression or anxiety will sometimes experience physical manifestations of these affective fluctuations, often in the form of medically unexplained symptoms.
31855	There is no specific treatment for hypochondriasis; patients are likewise treated with counseling and psychiatric visits as well as moral support from family and friends.
31856	There is no known treatment for hypochondrogenesis. If the condition is detected during pregnancy, parents are given the option to terminate the pregnancy. If the detected at birth, parents can discuss management of birth with a neonatologist. Decisions are usually made after thorough counseling.
31857	Orthopedic surgery and physical therapy are the two standard treatments for hypochondroplasia. Patients and their families are also encouraged to undergo genetic counseling.
31858	Treatment may involve taking prescription corticosteroids. Because the body isn't producing sufficient steroid hormones, the doctor may have the patient take one or more hormones to replace the deficiency. Cortisol is replaced with hydrocortisone (Cortef), prednisone or cortisone. Fludrocortisone (Florinef) replaces aldosterone, which controls the body's sodium and potassium needs and keeps your blood pressure normal.
31860	The usual treatment of hypoglycemia is administration or ingestion of foods convertible to glucose or dextrose.
31861	The most effective treatment for hypogonadism is to replace the necessary hormones. This is testosterone for men and progesterone and estradiol for women. Some of the cases of infertility that results from hypogonadism can be treated.
31862	Treatment is by cooling measures, such as air-conditioning and wet garments.
31863	Treatment of this condition depends on the specific symptoms. Often, patients require excessive dental work or even dentures and dental implants later in life. Those with abnormal hair may need to wear wigs. Those with bone malformation may require surgery.
31864	The best treatment for minor dehydration is drinking water and stopping loss of fluids. Water is preferable to sport drinks and other commercially-sold rehydration fluids, as the balance of electrolytes they provide may not be similar the replacement requirements of the individual. To stop fluid loss from vomiting and diarrhea, one must avoid solid foods and drink only clear liquids
31865	The first thing done to hypokalemia patients is the removal of the cause. Treatment also depends on severity. Supplementation with potassium chloride is usually given to patients with hypokalemia.
31866	The treatment of hypokalemic periodic analysis is focused more in the prevention of future attacks and relief of more acute symptoms. Doctors also advice patients who suffer from this condition to avoid carbohydrate rich foods after a strenuous exercise. Taking effervescent potassium bicarbonate with water are helpful in managing attacks. Potassium tablets are also administered to some patients.
31867	Persons suffering from hypokalemic sensory disorder are usually given over the counter potassium supplements. Too much potassium in the body though can cause an opposing condition known as hyperkalemia. This is why a doctor's supervision is needed. The condition can also be avoided by staying away from high carbohydrates and high calcium meals. As far as reduced sensitivity to lidocaine is concerned, the local anesthetic articaine can be used as an alternative.
31868	The treatment of hypolipoproteinemia depends on the specific cause of the condition. For Tangier disease though, there is no known cure. Children with betalipoprotein deficiencies are often given vtamin E supplements.
31869	Hyponatremia treatment is targeted at the underlying cause, if it can be identified and corrected. If there is moderate, chronic hyponatremia due to the use of diuretics or excessive water consumption, the doctor may advise the patient to temporarily cut back on fluids or adjust the diuretic use to increase the level of sodium in the blood.
31870	Hypocalcemia, as a result of hypoparathyroidism, is treated by providing the patient with calcium gluconate (intravenously). Supplementation with calcium and vitamin D3 is usually part of the long term treatment of hypoparathyroidism.
31871	There is no known treatment for this condition. Choline dietary supplements though are reported to have offered some health benefits to a number of individuals with hypophosphatasia.
31871	There is no known cure for hypophosphatasia. Although, there have been some claims that choline may have positive health benefits for those with the disease that take it as a dietary supplement.
31872	The treatment of post inflammatory hypopigmentation will depend upon the diagnosis of the cause, and a portion of your skin might be taken and checked under a microscope (biopsy) to determine what is causing the discoloration.
31873	Hypopituitarism is treated by replacing the lacking hormones. The type of treatment also depends on the specific cause of the disease.
31874	An three-stage operation or a full heart transplant are the treatments for this condition. Before anything else though, the patient must be fully assessed by a cardiologist. As a temporary solution, medicines containing prostaglandin is given to the patent to keep the ductus open to allow continuous bloodflow. Though infants have a good chance of being treated of HLHS, those who have survived from this condition often experience chronic health problems later in the lives.
31875	The main treatment for hypoprothrombinaemia is periodic infusion of purified prothrombin complex or fresh frozen plasma. Some individuals suffering from this condition also respond well to taking vitamin K dietary supplements.
31877	In instances where the effects of hypospadias are merely cosmetic, it can generally be corrected by surgery. In worse cases though such as when the condition is associated with birth defects, a karyotype of endocrine evaluation is usually recommended to detect hormone deficiencies. Testosterone may be injected if the penis is small.
31878	Antibiotic and vaccination protocols have been established to minimize the risk of acquiring hyposplenism. Doctors also provide oral antibiotics after a surgery of the spleen (splenectomy) to reduce the risk of infection. There is also now an effort to preserve a part of the spleen during splenectomy to preserve some of its important roles in the body. Ideally, a preoperative vaccination should be given until the time when the remaining spleen becomes able to perform its functions. A full-dose course of antibiotics is also given to patients at the onset of a cough, sore throat or fever. Individuals with hyposplenism are also advised to take extra precautionary measures when traveling to other countries especially in those where specific diseases such as malaria are prevalent. If a patient must travel to these areas then a vaccination is advised.
31879	The treatment for hypotension is depending on its cause. Asymptomatic hypotension in healthy people often does not require treatment. Severe hypotension needs to be aggressively treated due to reduced blood flow to critical organs including the brain, heart and kidneys may cause organ failure and can ultimately lead to death. Treatment includes systemic vasoconstrictors. Putting sodium to a diet can also relieve symptoms of mild hypotension.
31880	The treatment of hypothalamic dysfunction depends on the cause. If there is a tumor, then radiation or surgery may be necessary.
31881	Treatment and management of hypothalamic hamartoblastoma syndrome is on a case to case basis, depending on the symptoms present on the patient. If there are no unusual complications, the disease is left untouched. If the hamartoblastoma is determined to cause pressure on the brain, then it is necessary to remove it.
31882	Hypothermia can be treated by drying, shelter and warming up gradually. The transfer of body heat from another person is a great help. Drinking sweet warm liquids may also help.
31884	Individuals with hypothyroidism are provided with thyroid hormones usually in tablet form.
31885	Most forms of hypotrichosis have no known treatment. For cosmetic purposes, patients with hypotrichosis advised to wear a hat or wig.
31886	Hypotropia can be treated with the following procedures: through corrective glasses, patching, prism therapy, surgical correction or botox injection. Surgical correction is the most ideal treatment of hypotropia. Surgery has the ability to bring binocularity, correct the cosmetic defect and manage diplopia. However, surgical correction should only be used after thorough examination of a physician.
31887	Environmental hypoxia - refers to condition of reduced partial pressure of oxygen as in high altitude areas such as mountains. Ischemia - refers to a restriction in blood supply which in turn results in restriction in oxygen supply to certain parts of th body. Ischemia is usually caused by a blockage in the blood vessels.
31888	Hysteria is treated by psychoanalysis, psychotherapy and tranquilizers as a form of medication.
31889	The main treatment for ICF Syndrome is repeated infusions of immunoglobulin. If there is vitamin A deficiency then vitamin A supplements are given to the patient. Vitamin A is also effective in preventing ICF diseases in cases where vitamin A is deficient.
31890	One of the treatments for ichthyophobia is an unconditioning technique called graduated exposure therapy as proposed by John B. Watson. This type of treatment is based on the assumption that shaming and modeling methods are ineffective in curing ichthyophobia. In the method proposed by Watson, the patient is exposed to fish gradually. The whole process can take days or weeks. A contrasting therapy is called the radical exposure therapy. As the name suggests, this technique exposes the patient to fish in a more direct and abrupt manner. The method has been shown in the 2007 documentary series called Panic Room.
31891	Treatment of ichthyosis vulgaris include the use of various topical treatments such as lotions and creams to exfoliate the scales. Climate plays a big factor in management of ichtyosis vulgaris. Those who suffer from this condition are advised to reside in an area with a tropical climate that could facilitate sweating which in turn would help in clearing up the scales.
31892	Treatment of the condition is by addressing the problems of the diseases that caused jaundice.
31893	Treatment for the illness is by intake of antipsychotic drugs, as well as counseling and constant moral support from family members.
31894	The common treatment of idiopathic eosinophilic pneumonia is the use of corticosteroids which produces dramatic improvement of the condition. The corticosteroids is given either orally or intravenously. Treatment is usually continued for a month or more after the symptoms have disappeared. In cases of relapse, inhaled steroids are also used. In cases wherein breathing is severely compromised, the use of noninvasive breathing aids are used. In some cases, it might be necessary to put breathing tubes in the mouths of patients and use ventilators to help them breathe.
31895	The purpose of treating AIS is to strengthen and balance the spine. The treatment for AIS can either be surgical or non-surgical. Non-surgical treatments are given to patients whose back curvature is between 20 to 40 degrees. The treatment usually employs the use of a back brace. For curves that do not respond well to non-surgical treatments, then the only option that remains is surgery. Surgery for AIS involves special implants such as hooks, wires, screws and rods. It is important to known the surgery is not a cure for scoliosis. It is only a way to correct the curvature.
31896	There are currently no known effective treatments or a cure for Pulmonary Fibrosis. The pharmacological agents designed to treat lung scarring are still in the experimental phase while the treatments needed to suppress inflammation have only limited success in reducing the fibrotic progress.
31898	Idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura is typically treated by a doctor who specializes in blood disorders (hematologist). The goal of treating ITP is to ensure a safe platelet count and prevent bleeding complications while reducing treatment side effects.
31899	There are no specific treatments available. Some people slowly develop normal levels of IgA without treatment. Individual infections should be treated with the necessary antibiotics. In some cases, longer courses of antibiotics may be needed to stop recurring infection. The treament of autoimmune disease is based on the specific problem.
31900	Once diagnosed, ileitis can be treated by surgery. It will then be followed by antibiotics such as corticosteroids to ensure full recovery of the small intestine, as well as to prevent further complications with the rest of the digestive system. A bland diet is also prescribed to avoid recurrence of the disease, while lots of fluids have to be taken to replenish lost nutrients. Advanced stages of the disease (peritonitis) meanwhile require replacement of the small intestine.
31901	To prevent, or cure chronic ITBS there are some essential exercises: Strength building of the hip abductors, which control ITB tightness, Performing specific stretches; Iliotibial band stretch, stretching the gluteal muscles, and other leg based static stretching
31902	Treatment is done by adequate rest and relaxation of the affected area, fractures have to be treated by surgery, while physical therapy helps in regaining bone and muscle strength.
31903	While there is no known cure, symptoms and deformities may still be alleviated with various methods due to multiple contractures and weakness. Physical therapy intervention including stretching (may include casting and splinting program of affected joints), mobility training, and strengthening, are undertaken to improve flexion and range of motion. Occupational therapy interventions can include training in ADL and fine motor skills as well as targeting psychosocial and emotional implications of a chronic condition.
31904	Impacted wisdom teeth don't always need to be surgically taken out. There are two main treatment options, depending on the severity of the situation and other factors. They are conservative treatment and surgical extraction.
31906	Imperforate anus typically requires immediate surgery to open a passage for faeces. Depending on the severity of the imperforate, it is treated either with a colostomy or with a perineal anoplasty.
31908	In generations, the disease was treated with an application of gentian violet, an anti-fungal agent. Nowadays, topical or oral antibiotics are usually prescribed. Treatment may involve washing with soap and water and allowing the impetigo dry in the air.
31909	Treatment can be done by limiting strenuous activities. One can also do stretching exercises to help relax the muscles and not cause friction against the bones. Physical therapy can be taken to help strengthen the bones and muscles.
31911	Urologists, who are specialties in problems of the urinary tract, have traditionally treated impotence--especially complications of impotence.
31913	Some of the more common treatments of of inborn errors of metabolism include: dietary restriction; dietary supplementation; vitamins; intermediary metabolites; dialysis; enzyme replacement; gene transfer; bone marrow or organ transplant; treatment of symptoms and complications; and prenatal diagnosis.
31914	To date, several clinical trials have been done to treat inclusion body myositis. While a few results have shown short-term improvements in patients, no medication has demonstrated any long-term efficacy. Currently, biologic agents, a new mode of sIBM treatment, are being researched in relation to immune disorders. Another study is currently in the works to use Campath to treat this form of myositis.
31915	Treatment in the newborn consists of administration of tetracycline ointment to the conjunctiva and erythromycin orally or via intravenous therapy for fourteen days. The mother should be treated for cervicitis and the father for urethritis, even if they do not display symptoms of these diseases.
31916	Treatment may include: certain behavioral techniques (including pelvic muscle exercises, biofeedback, and bladder training; medications; surgery (if the incontinence is related to structural problems such as an abnormally positioned bladder or a blockage); and diet modifications (including eliminating caffeine in coffee, soda, and tea, and/or eliminating alcohol).
31917	The treatment for babies with incontinentia pigmenti should be concentrated on the potential for the rapid development of irreversible blindness rather than on the obvious skin changes. If the ophthalmologist finds retinal abnormalities prior to the development of retinal detachment or bleeding, laser or other surgical procedures can be done to prevent visual loss. In addition, if retinal detachment is found early, surgical intervention can help preserve the person's vision.
31918	Indigestion is usually harmless unless if the uncomfortable feeling persists and accompanied by loss of weigh, vomiting, stools are black and tarry and shortness of breath, pain or sweating that radiates to the jaw, arm or neck.
31919	Oxygen is given with a minute amount of continuous positive airway pressure ("CPAP"), and intravenous fluids are administered to stabilize the blood sugar, blood salts, and blood pressure. If the baby's condition becomes worse, an endotracheal tube (breathing tube) is inserted into the trachea and intermittent breaths are given by a mechanical device. An exogenous preparation of surfactant, either synthetic or extracted from animal lungs, is given via the breathing tube into the lungs.
31920	There is no exact treatment for infantile paralysis. A vaccine is available to protect people from the virus and it has been effective in reducing the number of polio cases. Those afflicted by the disease meanwhile can undergo speech therapy as well as physical and occupational therapies to keep their muscles from total degeneration.
31921	Compared with other forms of epilepsy, West syndrome is hard to treat. To increase the chance of successful treatment and keep down the risk of longer-lasting effects, it is very important that the condition is diagnosed as early as possible and that treatment begins straight away. There is no guarantee, however, that therapy will work even in this case.
31922	Infantile SMA is a fatal disorder and there is no known cure. Treatment can only alleviate any associated complications. For instance, since a child with infantile SMA is susceptible to respiratory infections and pneumonia, treatment focuses on trying to maintain the child's lung function and health.
31923	Infectious arthritis usually needs several days of treatment in a hospital, with follow-up medication and physical therapy lasting several weeks or months.
31924	High dose antibiotics are given by the intravenous route to maximize diffusion of antibiotic molecules into vegetation(s) from the blood filling the chambers of the heart. This is required because neither the heart valves nor the vegetations adherent to them are supplied by blood vessels. Antibiotics are continued for a long period of time, typically two to six weeks.
31925	Treatment of infertility usually starts with medication. In vitro fertilization (IVF) in addition to different forms and developments of it (ICSI, ZIFT, GIFT) is another solution. They all include that the fertilization at the outside of the body. Moreover, an insemination can make fertilization inside the body. Other techniques are like tuboplasty, assisted hatching and PGD.
31926	Drug treatment is the main method for relieving the symptoms of both ulcerative colitis and Crohn's disease. Large progress is being made in the development of medications for treating inflammatory bowel disease. Your child's doctor may prescribe: anti-inflammatory drugs (used to decrease the inflammation caused by the disease), immunosuppressive agents (which work to restrain the immune system from attacking the body's own tissues and causing further inflammation).
31927	Treatment for inflammatory breast cancer begins with chemotherapy, followed by surgery and radiation therapy. This combined-treatment approach has greatly improved the outlook for women with inflammatory breast cancer. About half the women diagnosed with the condition survive five or more years, and nearly one-third are alive 20 years after the initial diagnosis.
31928	Much of the illness and death caused by influenza can be prevented by a yearly influenza vaccination. Flu vaccine is specifically recommended for those who are at high risk for developing serious complications as a consequence of influenza infection.
31929	For a recurrent ingrown toenail, the primary doctor or foot doctor may suggest removing a portion of the toenail along with the underlying tissue (nail bed) to prevent that part of the nail from growing back. This procedure can be performed with a chemical, a laser or other methods.
31930	The two general types of hernia operations are herniorrhaphy and hernioplasty.
31931	If the case is not severe a watch-and-wait approach is recommended by the doctor. Hernia operations are performed in severe cases such as herniorrhaphy and hernioplasty.
31932	In several cases, insomnia is caused by another disease or psychological problem.
31933	The primary treatment for insulin resistance is exercise and weight loss. In some individuals, a low-glycemic index or a low-carbohydrate diet can also help. Both metformin and the thiazolidinediones improve insulin resistance, but only approve therapies for type 2 diabetes, not insulin resistance, per se. By contrast, growth hormone replacement therapy can be associated with increased insulin resistance.
31934	The management is surgical removal of the insulinoma. This may require removing part of the pancreas as well (Whipple procedure and distal pancreatectomy). Medications such as diazoxide and somatostatin can be used to hinder the release of insulin for patients who are not surgical candidates or who otherwise have inoperable tumours.
31935	The disorder is treated by injections of drugs such as xylocaine and lidocaine to help relax the nerve and make it go back to its proper alignment. In case of sutures, the affected part of the nerve has to be removed.
31936	Rest is the best way to treat intermittent claudication. When one suffers from the condition, he or she must sit on the floor with legs stretched. Stretching relaxes the arteries and allows more space for the blood to flow. Massaging the affected area also helps. The condition, however, relieves itself without further medication.
31937	Treatment is achieved through both cognitive behavioral therapy and psychotropic medication regiments. Therapy aids is helping the patient recognize the impulses in hopes of achieving a level of awareness and control of the outbursts, along with treating the emotional stress that accompanies these episodes. Several drug regimens are frequently indicated for IED patients.
31938	Internal bleeding can be treated with surgical procedures. At most cases however, internal bleeding can no longer be resolved.
31939	Diet, medication, pelvic floor treatements, pain control, and bladder distensions are some of the treatments for IC.
31940	Since Interstitial Lung Disease is not a solitary disorder, each disease is treated separately. There is no uniform treatment for this group of lung ailment. If the disease is caused by long-term exposure to a toxin or pollutant, non-exposure would be recommended. The same thing goes when the disease is drug-induced, taking that drug need to be discontinued. Most of the time prednisolone is given to treat ILD, which are caused by connective tissue disorders and those that are considered as idiopathic.
31941	Treatments for intertrigo include calcineurin inhibitors (pimecrolimus cream and tacrolimus ointment), which are non-steroid topical agents and can be helpful in difficult cases, low-potency topical steroid creams, coexisting infection should be treated if preset, and a biopsy may be recommended if the diagnosis is uncertain.
31942	Diet in low fiber - for partial blockage of the intestines Surgery - to remove adhesions
31943	Gastroenteritis can be treated by oral therapy in order not to lead to dehydration. Oral rehydration solutions can be performed at home.
31944	Antibiotics are generally used to treat or prevent infections. The doctors also will treat any underlying medical condition, such as congestive heart failure or an irregular heartbeat. The patient may need to stop any medications that constrict the blood vessels, such as migraine drugs, hormone medications and some heart drugs.
31945	The doctor may choose from a number of antibiotics, all of which have proved effective in treating Whipple's disease, either alone or in combination. They include: Sulfasalazine (Azulfidine);Trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole, or TMP-SMX (Bactrim, Septra); Ceftriaxone; Tetracycline; Doxycycline; Erythromycin; Streptomycin; Ampicillin; and Penicillin G.
31946	Treatment for the disease is done by inserting a nasogastric tube inside the abdomen to decompress the intestines. When the procedure doesn't work, surgical treatment will be required.
31947	Nutritional support: Enteral nutrition to provide liquid food through a feeding tube. Other patients may need IV feeding which is also referred to as parenteral nutrition. If the condition is caused by an illness or medication, medication is immediately stopped and the doctor will treat the underlying illness. Antibiotics are prescribed for bacterial infections, pain medication and medicine to treat problems in the intestinal muscle. In severe cases surgery is done to get rid a part of the intestine.
31948	It should be noted that there is no specific treatment for primary intestinal pseudo-obstruction. However, pain-relieving drugs are given to alleviate the abdominal pain along with proper nutrition and hydration. There are also surgical produces aimed at reducing abdominal distension including transplant surgeries to provide comfort for the patient.
31949	Options include: Perforation, where, if the blood is localized and isn't clotting excessively, the doctor may create a hole through the skull (perforation) and then remove the liquid by suction; and Craniotomy, where large hematomas may require that a section of the skull be opened (craniotomy) to remove the blood.
31950	If the site of the spinal CSF leak can be identified, then options include: Epidural blood patch, performed by an anesthesiologist pain management specialist, surgical repair of the defect. Over-draining CSF shunts are controlled by replacing the valve with one that drains less. Lumboperitoneal shunts can have to be removed or ligated.
31951	Mammography is the most helpful tool in identifying DCIS. Because DCIS may be present in the breast even though one can't feel it, getting regular mammograms can help identify microscopic breast changes that might be associated with DCIS.
31952	Beforehand, medical professionals regard radiotherapy as the mainstay treatment; however, recent medical practice has considered methotrexate as the first line defense in the treatment of Intraocular lymphoma. Intraocular lymphoma showing manifestations of retinitis are treated with antiviral medicines and those that exhibit signs and symptoms of uveitis are treated with costicosteroids.
31953	Treatment designed to destroy a melanoma usually will cause some loss of vision, even though every effort is made to preserve vision. But since cancers of the eye can be fatal, in some cases treatment will be needed even if it means loss of vision or loss of your eye.
31954	The best way to treat the condition is by prevention. Women must practice a healthy lifestyle during pregnancy to avoid babies with IGR.
31955	Intrauterine dwarfism is treated by intravenous growth hormone therapy to aid the child's development.
31956	The main treatment used to cure intussusception is by surgery. Advanced stages will as well require treatment for gangrene.
31957	Doctors usually recommend that women with LCIS have breast examinations every 6-12 months, and mammograms every 1-2 years. Any changes in the breast can then be picked up at the earliest phase and treated if appropriate. Rarely, a woman with LCIS may make a personal decision to have both breasts surgically removed (bilateral mastectomy). This tends to occur where there is a strong family history of breast cancer, or the woman has extreme feelings of anxiety about her risk of developing breast cancer.
31958	Mild deficiency in iodine may be remedied by boosting up dietary iodine intake by means of increased consumption of iodine rich foods and using iodized table salt. For severe cases, administration of iodine supplements is obligatory.
31960	Tropane alkaloids are often prescribed for the purpose of immobilizing the iris and to alleviate the pain; however if the main intention is to reduce the inflammation, topical steroids like dexamethasone and prednisolone are recommended by doctors. For very severe cases, administering a subconjunctival steroid injection is highly necessary.
31961	Treatment commonly involves eye drops to alleviate and minimize inflammation and pressure and steroids for specific medical purposes.
31962	The condition can be treated by taking iron supplements. A high-iron diet is also prescribed consisting of animal protein. Foods high in iron include meat and liver.
31963	If the cause is dietary iron deficiency, iron supplements, usually with iron (II) sulfate, ferrous gluconate, or iron amino acid chelate NaFeEDTA, will usually correct the anemia.
31964	Doctors can treat hemochromatosis safely and effectively by removing blood from the body (phlebotomy) on a regular basis, just as if the person were donating blood. But in this case, the goal is to reduce the iron levels to normal. The amount of blood drawn depends on age, overall health and the severity of iron overload. Some people need many phlebotomies to achieve normal iron levels
31965	Prevention is the best way to treat the condition. Take only adequate amounts of iron supplements that are needed by the body. Severe cases require cleaning the blood of iron deposits using chelation therapy. When this fails, dialysis is the next step.
31966	The condition can be treated depending on the cause. For blood clot-related arrythmias, anticoagulants are given. Meanwhile to maintain a normal heart beat one must take regular exercise and proper diet.
31967	The doctor might recommend medications, fluid consumptions, fiber intake, bladder training, double voiding, scheduled toilet trips, pelvic floor muscle exercises, and absorbent pads.
31968	Knowledge of what caused the disorder is essential in the treatment of Irritable Bowel Syndrome. Treating the underlying symptom is the best way to treat this disorder. However, certain modifications in the diet can also help while in the process of treating the condition. For medications, anti-depressants are sometimes prescribed for relieving pain and anti-diarrheals as remedy for frequent and loose bowel movement. Anti-spasmodics are also given to ease spasm. For constipated patients, laxatives and stool softeners are recommended.
31970	Treatment of the condition depends on its severity. If it is mild, medications may be prescribed to keep blood pressure at normal levels or antibiotics to prevent development of infections. Other cases may need hospitalization to be administered with fluids and nutrients through the veins as well as food intake restrictions. The condition is monitored with follow-up colonoscopies.
31971	Once a cause is identified, treatments for itchy skin may include: medications, wet dressings, treating the underlying disease, and light therapy (phototherapy).
31973	The symptoms gradually resolve within two weeks. Boric acid and calamine lotion can be used to treat the blisters and sores.
31974	Unfortunately, there is no cure for Jackson-Weiss syndrome; however surgery is always possible if the person wants to correct terrible facial deformities.
31975	There is no cure for Jacobsen syndrome and there is no therapy available to restore or return any missing gene from the rubbed out portion of chromosome 11. The good thing is there are some management approaches that intend to lessen several critical health effects in connection with Jacobsen syndrome.
31976	Treatment for Japanese Encephalitis is supportive with the purpose of reducing the symptoms. Rest, proper nutrition, and fluids provide the body with strength to fight against infection. However, certain medications like acetaminophen are given to reduce fever and headache.
31976	There is no particular cure for Japanese Encephalitis. Patient care concentrates in curing the symptoms and the problems that arise due to the disease.
31977	Infants born with Jarcho-levin syndrome experience breathing difficulties due to their very small and deformed chests; this condition makes them very vulnerable to developing pneumonia. This is the primary reason why children suffering from this disorder do not survive longer than 2 years after birth. Serious medical care, associated with treatment for respiratory infections are the treatment approaches for this disorder. Bone surgery is also possible depending on the underlying conditions.
31978	With the exception of the treatments for specific causes of jaundice mentioned previously, the treatment of jaundice usually requires a diagnosis of the specific cause of the jaundice and treatment directed at the specific cause, like removal of a gallstone blocking the bile duct.
31980	Infants born with Jejunal atresia will necessitate surgery (laparotomy) almost immediately after birth. If the affected section is small, the surgeon will removed the damaged portion and connect the intestine together. For certain instances, a temporary opening called stoma maybe placed.
31981	There is no specific treatment for the disorder itself, treatment is only based on the management of the underlying condition. For example, medical management is performed during cardiac arrhythmic attacks; while other abnormalities in the heart are treated through case-to-case basis.
31983	Jock itch is best treated with topical creams or ointments since the fungus only affects the top layer of skin. Lots of the antifungal medications require a prescription, but there are three that can be bought over-the-counter (OTC).
31985	There is no exact treatment for Joseph disease. Antispasmodic drugs can be taken to help reduce the muscle spasms.
31986	The treatment that is available for Joubert syndrome is supportive and symptomatic. Several therapies could be done such as physical therapy, occupational therapy, speech therapy, and infant stimulation. These could benefit some of the patients. Infants should be constantly monitored especially those who have breathing patterns that are abnormal. The prognoses for patients that are afflicted with Joubert syndrome often vary. A few could have the mild type which comes with mild motor disability and a mental development that is normal while some could have moderate retardation of mental development and severe motor defect.
31988	Once a proper diagnosis has been made, JDM could be treated with the use of a 3-day course of intravenous steroids such as methyprednisolone. This is regularly followed by a high dosage of prednisone (about 1-2mg/kg of the total body weight) which is administered orally. These often make the disease manageable. Improvement on the muscle condition is soon noticeable. Once the illness is managed, oral steroids are gradually decreased to minimize the drugs' side effects.
31990	The treatments for sweaty sock syndrome include reduction of friction by wearing well fitting shoes, preferably leather, with two pairs of cotton socks; lubricating the dry skin such as applying greasy moisturizers that can be very helpful particularly applied after bath and before bed. Another is having a rest day by scheduling quiet times with little or no walking to allow the fissures to heal.
31992	Treatment for schizophrenia is not simple. A combination of therapies is often required to meet the individualized needs of the child or adolescent with schizophrenia. Treatment is directed at reducing the symptoms associated with the disorder.
31996	There is no specific cure for Kaposi's sarcoma but treating the cause of the immune system dysfunction can reduce or impede the progression of the disorder. Local lesions can be treated with radiation therapy or cryosurgery, application of extreme cold with the aim to break up and destroy tissues that have been damaged.
31997	At present, there are treatments available to stabilize the hand in its normal position and appearance, however, it can not facilitate to allow the hand to assume its normal function. Some people with Karsch Neugebauer syndrome use prosthetic hands in their hope to avoid unfair criticism and hearing cruel words from others.
31998	Medical care of someone suffering from Kartagener syndrome is more on prevention of respiratory infections, and punctual treatment when it occurs.
32000	Once diagnosis of Kawasaki syndrome is established, the patient should be under hospital care. This is essential to prevent coronary artery damages. The standard treatment for Kawasaki syndrome is Intravenous Immunoglobulin within the first 7 days to avoid coronary artery aneurysm. Salicylate (aspirin) therapy and corticosteroids are also part of the treatment.
32001	Symptomatic and supportive treatment is usually the medical approach essential for Kearns-Sayre Syndrome because there is no specific treatment that can cure Kearns-Sayre syndrome. Due to this fact, palliative medications to decrease the gravity of the symptoms is the only medical care available for this disorder
32002	There are many available treatments for keloids; though, not all of them are regarded as 100% effective in removing keloids. Contractubex Gel, which is considered as the most effective treatment for new scars and keloids, surgery, Corticosteroid injections, laser therapy, cryosurgery, radiation therapy - to name a few.
32003	There is still no known treatment for Kennedy Disease.
32005	There are many approaches that serve as treatment for Keratoacanthoma. The following are some of recommended treatment options: * Cryosurgery, which involves freezing with extremely cold liquid nitrogen. * Excision through the use of the scalpel; a medical instrument resembling a knife. * Mohs Micrographic surgery * Electrodessication and curettage * Radiation therapy * Taking a pill called Isotretinoin is necessary to minimize the size and number of Keratoacanthoma present.
32006	Resting the eye and repeated blinking is helpful. Supplemental lubrication to aid rehydration is one of the most effective parts of treatment. Temporary relief can be achieved by the application of artificial tears and lubricating tear ointments. Mild topical steroids and surgery if there are abnormalities in the eyelids are some of the medical treatments for Keratoconjunctivitis Sicca.
32007	The following are considerable options in minimizing the scope of the symptoms of Keratoconus: * Eyeglasses during the early onset of Keratoconus can help in correcting astigmatism. * Specialized contact lenses have been developed and manufactured for Keratoconus inflicted persons. Surgical alternatives possible are: * Corneal transplant like penetrating keratoplasty * Corneal ring segment inserts * Radial Keratotomy
32008	As treatment for pitted keratolysis, a physician may try prescription-strength antiperspirant containing aluminum chloride, prescription antibiotic lotions such as clindamycin, erythromycin or muirocin, antifungal cream such as miconazole or clotrimazole, prescription oral antibiotics such as erythromycin and injections of botulinum toxin (in severe cases). The skin lesions and odor of pitted keratolysis usually appear within 4 weeks upon combining some of the treatments.
32009	Keratosis is treated by topical cream solutions, avoidance to sun exposure and regular care for the skin.
32010	Treatment of Keratosis Pilaris is focused in controlling the unsightly bumps and not for curative objectives, because there is no known cure for Keratosis Pilaris. These bumps are prone to recurrence. Some of the valuable approaches include: * Topical Corticosteroids to reduce the inflammation * Glycolic acid or lactic acid * Topical creams containing urea * Tretinoin Avoid scratching the affected areas so as not to aggravate the situation and minimize inflammation.
32011	Most of the time, treatment is not required for Seborrheic Keratosis because they are not at all painful. On the other hand, it is also possible to decrease or remove these skin growths for cosmetic concerns. Some procedures to get rid of these unsightly lesions include: * Cryosurgery- applying extreme cold to destruct the presence of these lesions * Scraping - also referred to as curettage * Electrocautery - applying heat to burn and get rid of lesions If the physician suspects malignancy, he will request for a skin biopsy in order to rule out the suspicion.
32012	Oral antifungal pills or syrup such as ketoconazole, griseofulvin, fluconazole, terbinafine and itraconazole help treat kerion and scalp ringworm which usually require at least 6-8 weeks of treatment. This is because the fungus grows deep into the hair follicle where topical creams and lotions cannot penetrate.
32013	* Phototherapy to treat jaundice * Exchange transfusion to replace the infant's blood with fresh, clean blood; in order to get rid of the existing unconjugated bilirubin (in serum). * Albumin administration * In some rare cases, Phenobarbital administration for the mother before giving birth and to the baby several days after birth as a form of drug therapy.
32015	At any stage of disease, people with kidney cancer may have treatment to control pain and other symptoms, to relieve the side effects of therapy, and to ease emotional and practical problems. This kind of therapy is called supportive care, symptom management, or palliative care.
32016	Kidney failure is first treated by dialysis to release the disease-causing agents that affect the organs; surgical replacement is hence done for severe cases.
32017	Most of the time, the patient needs to undergo temporary hemodialysis - often referred to simply as "dialysis" - to help remove toxins and excess fluids from the body while the kidneys heal. Dialysis, which is a mechanical way of filtering waste from the blood, is an imperfect but lifesaving substitute for kidney function.
32018	Drugs commonly recommended for treating kidney infection include: Amoxicillin (Amoxil, Trimox), Quinolones such as ciprofloxacin (Cipro) and norfloxacin (Noroxin), the antibiotic combination sulfamethoxazole and trimethoprim (Bactrim, Septra).
32019	There is several treatment for kidney stone disease: Temporizing, Analgesia, Urologic interventions and Ureteral (double-J) stents.
32020	There is still no known cure for Kikuchi Disease; however, some symptoms can be treated but need to wait long for the symptoms to be masked up. Intolerable symptoms can persist for 6 months; in spite of this, Kikuchi Disease can still reappear to some of the patients within a period of time.
32021	Existing treatment involves administration of Dantrolene intravenously; suspend exposure to triggering agents, and support therapy aimed at correcting hyperthermia, organ dysfunction, and acidosis.
32022	There's no particular therapy available to treat infectious mononucleosis. Antibiotics are not effective against viral infections such as mono. Treatment mostly involves bed rest and adequate fluid intake. Sometimes, a streptococcal (strep) infection accompanies the sore throat of mononucleosis. A sinus infection may also develop or an infection of the tonsils (tonsillitis). If so, the patient may need treatment with antibiotics for these accompanying bacterial infections.
32023	There is no perfect treatment for the disorder itself. However, stimulants are available and prescribed to treat sleepiness.
32024	Kleptomania has several different treatments: Cognitive-behavioral therapy is adviced as an adjuvant to medication. There are some medications that are used for people diagnosed with kleptomania are selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors, mood stabilizers and opioid antagonists. The only open-trial of medication for kleptomania showed naltrexone significantly reduced the intensity of urges to steal, stealing thoughts and stealing behavior
32025	This syndrome is non-curable; however there are available treatments to cure the symptoms brought by Klinefelter's syndrome. One of these is through testosterone treatment. There is a study that claims that timely and planned support allotted to young men with this condition can restore present poor psychosocial effects.
32026	In consideration of the complexity of Klippel Trenaunay-Weber Syndrome, there is still no single treatment proven to promote treatment. Treatment is only applicable for the symptoms of the disorder.
32027	The treatment for Klippel-Feil Syndrome is only based on the symptoms that are manifested. This may include surgery if there are evidences of cervical and cranio-cervical volatility/instability; for the purpose of improving the condition. Surgery may also be suggested for clear cases of spinal cord constriction and scoliosis. Another useful approach that may alleviate the symptoms of Klippel-Feil Syndrome is through physical therapy; only if ordered by the physician.
32032	Usually, the treatment practice is to cast the affected foot typically with an orthopedic cast in order to keep the bone in place until it has achieved complete healing; Usually, from the tarsal reaching up to below the knee. In addition to this, moderate exercise can also improve the present condition; depending on the advice of the medical doctor.
32033	Korsakoff's syndrome can be treated by means of thiamine replacement administered through intravenous (IV) or intramuscular (IM) injections. There are cases when drug therapy is a necessity.
32035	Although there is no known cure for Krabbe disease, bone marrow transplantation has been shown to benefit mild cases early in the course of the disease. Typically, treatment for the disorder is symptomatic and supportive. Physical therapy may also help maintain or increase muscle tone and circulation.
32037	The Krukenberg tumor is a secondary tumor; therefore it can only be treated once the primary tumor is found and has been removed.
32038	Treatment for the disease is by managing the present symptoms suffered by the patient. This includes physical therapy and orthotic supports. Genetic counseling is also recommended.
32040	While there is no cure, symptoms and deformities may still be relieved with various methods due to multiple contractures and weakness. Physical therapy intervention including stretching, strengthening, and mobility training, are undertaken to improve flexion and range of motion. Occupational therapy interventions may include training in ADL and fine motor skills as well as addressing psychosocial and emotional implications of a chronic condition.
32041	The most recommendable treatment for Kwashiorkor is addition of food energy and protein to the diet.
32042	Preventive treatment is administered through vaccination; attenuated live vaccine is now obtainable and presented along with preventive actions which includes wearing of protective clothing, tick control and mosquito control measures.
32043	Severe cases of Kyphosis may necessitate surgical treatment like kyphoplasty for the purpose of bringing an end to the deformity and alleviating the pain; however this is a very complicated procedure and need for separating the vertebrae is a very serious method. One approach to treat Kyphosis is the use of anti-inflammatory drugs combined with abdominal and hamstring muscle exercises. Orthosis or the use of braces has also exhibit remarkable results in trials associated with Kyphosis.
32045	There are evidences to claim that selective serotonin-reuptake inhibitors can provide effective treatment to Labyrinthitis. As with viral Labyrinthitis, it is essential that treatment with corticosteroids like prednisone be initiated in the early phase of Labyrinthitis.
32046	Although there are still no methodologies to reinstate lactase production, some individuals have shared their intolerance to vary over time (depending on health status and pregnancy). Lactose intolerance is not generally an all-or-nothing condition: the reduction in lactase production, and hence, the amount of lactose that can be tolerated varies from person to person.
32047	Mastitis treatment usually involves antibiotics, wherein treating mastitis generally requires a 10- to 14-day course of antibiotics. The patient may feel well again 24 to 48 hours after starting antibiotics, but it's important to take the entire course of medication to minimize her chance of recurrence.
32049	The most obvious means of treating lactose intolerance is by reducing the amount of lactose in the diet. Fortunately, a lot of people who are lactose intolerant can tolerate small or even moderate amounts of lactose. Caplets or tablets of lactase are able to take with milk-containing foods.
32050	There is no specific treatment for Lafora Disease but there are symptomatic approaches to control the symptoms of the disease. Antiepileptic drugs are prescribed to control seizure and Myoclonus.
32051	Treatment of Lambert-Eaton Myasthenic Syndrome with corticosteroids, azathioprine, and 3, 4-diaminopyridine has not yet gained success with regards to completely curing the condition. Plasma exchange or intravenous immunoglobulin can also be tried in the hope to aid treatment of this medical condition.
32053	Treatment for Landau-Kleffner Syndrome commonly includes prescription medicines including anticonvulsant and corticosteroids alongside speech therapy. Early therapy will be very useful in achieving positive results. A conflict-ridden treatment alternative is a surgical procedure known as multiple subpial transaction, which involves creating multiple incisions through the cortex of the affected portion of the brain.
32054	There is not a single specific treatment for Landouzy-Dejerine muscular dystrophy permitted by the Food and Drug Administration. The practice of occupational therapy application can be vital for become accustomed to new devices available; an essential factor to experience a more comfortable everyday life.
32055	Symptomatic treatment is the present approach to Langer-Giedion Syndrome because it is a genetic disorder; there is no available treatment to completely cure the syndrome. Present medical practice utilizes the importance of external fixators designed for limbic and facial reconstruction.
32056	Treatment is usually based depending on the coverage of the disorder. Excision or limited radiation may serve as an agreeable option in treating single bone lesion. Skin lesions are typically treated with local steroid creams. Chemotherapy is highly suggested for systemic diseases. Deficient endocrine function may be relieved with lifetime and permanent supplements.
32057	As of the moment, the most distinguished treatment for Laparoschisis is watch closely and monitor with your physician any evidence of damage to the intestine as well as modifying the time of delivery, in order to ensure that no infection will occur to the intestine of the infant. After delivery, the doctor will proceed with the necessary surgical approach to close the opening in the abdominal wall of the infant.
32058	Primarily treatment of Laron-type dwarfism is by means of biosynthetic IGF-1. This means that Growth Hormone administration has no impact on IGF-1 production.
32060	Laryngeal cancer, when treated early, can be treated with x-ray therapies and surgery. When removal of the larynx is required, patients will likewise undergo speech therapies in order to be able to speak again. The larynx can also be replaced with a prosthetic voice box to help regain one's speech abilities.
32061	One or combination of the following approach is used as treatment for Laryngeal carcinoma: surgery, chemotherapy, radiotherapy.
32062	At present, there are many available treatment procedures to remove laryngeal papillomas including: surgery, chemotherapy, antibiotic therapy. There are two types of surgical procedures that can effectively remove laryngeal papillomas; traditional surgical removal of papilloma and carbon dioxide laser surgery. Carbon dioxide laser surgery utilizes intense laser light while traditional removal of papilloma makes use of the customary surgical tools to excise any kind of tumor.
32063	The main treatment is to rest your voice as much as possible. If the symptoms has virus is present, such as low-grade fever, cough, nasal congestion, runny nose, muscle aches, or feeling run down, then you should be sure to drink lots of fluids. Several people find inhaling steam, such as from a hot bath or shower, or a cool mist humidifier makes them feel better.
32065	Rare cases of Laryngomalacia necessitate surgery; the procedure is done to cut to aryepiglottic folds for the purpose of opening the suprapiglottic airway spring. Severe cases of Laryngomalacia may need a temporary tracheotomy; which is a surgical procedure done on the neck to create an incision in the trachea that will serve as the temporary airway.
32066	Larynx cancer can be treated by surgery. In some cases the larynx has to be replaced by a prosthetic device to help generate voice sounds and be able to speak again.
32067	Patients with Lassa fever should be isolated and treated immediately with Ribavirin along with fluid replacement, fighting hypotension, and blood transfusion if necessary.
32069	Non-specific palliative treatments include: Non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs): ibuprofen, naproxen or aspirin. A counter-force brace or "tennis elbow strap", Heat or ice. While specific treatments with limited scientific support include: Local injection of cortisone and a numbing medicine, Using a splint to keep the forearm and elbow still for 2 to 3 weeks, Heat therapy, Physical therapy.
32070	Treatment is based on prevention. The only way to prevent an allergic reaction is to avoid a product that has latex. For lesser serious allergies, doctor may prescribe antihistamines, which you can take after exposure to an allergen to control reaction and help relieve discomfort. Creams could relieve skin reactions brought on by a latex allergy.
32071	Treatment for the illness can be done by eye drops, ointments and surgical transplant of the cornea.
32073	Ideally, lazy eye treatment starts in early childhood - when the complicated connections between the eye and the brain are forming. Depending on the cause and the degree to which the child's vision is affected, treatment options may include: corrective eyewear, eye patches, eyedrops, and surgery.
32075	The primary treatment for mild lead poisoning is to stop the exposure. Removal of the source of lead is critical in reducing blood lead levels.
32076	The disease can be treated by special anti-inflammatory drugs. However, these drugs are still under trial observation to prove their effectiveness.
32077	Special anti-inflammatory drugs are used to treat the disease.
32078	There is no standard cure yet for Leber's Disease. Recent studies have proposed the drug Minocycline as a treatment for the disease, as well as Idebenone. But actual effects on trial cases have not yet confirmed the effectivity of the drugs.
32079	Treatment can be done by administering special anti-inflammatory drugs. However, these drugs are still under trial procedures and haven't been proven be fully effective.
32080	Treatment for the illness can be done by the use special anti-inflammatory drugs.
32080	Treatment for the illness can be done by the use special anti-inflammatory drugs.
32082	Ledderhose disease is treated by surgery of the affected sole of the foot. Post-surgery medication is recommended with the use of the drug Gadolinium. Severe cases of Ledderhose disease are treated by cryosrugery. Other drugs and ointments such as cortisone injections and clobetasol are as well used to retard the onset of the disease.
32083	The disease can be treated by managing the symptoms the patient experiences. It can also be done by surgery using cardiac cauterization.
32084	To help prevent leg cramps: Drink plenty of fluids during the day. Stretch the leg muscles before sleeping. Get adequate potassium during diet.
32085	The disease is treated with respiratory tract quinolones such as levofloxacin, moxifloxacin amd gemifloxacin. Newer macrolides such as azithromycin are also recommended for treatment. Tetracyclines meanwhile are prescribed to patients from 12 to 18 years of age. Pontiac fever meanwhile needs no specific treatment, as patients recover 5 to 7 days after incurring the disease.
32086	At present there is no cure for the Leigh disease. A high-fat, low carbohydrate diet is sometimes recommended to improve the condition of the mitochondria in the cells, but it doesn't always guarantee recovery from the disease.
32087	Leiomyoma is treated by medical administration of GnRH analogues in order to reduce the size of the myoma. The analogues are used for 3 to 6 months until the myoma will no longer grow back. Surgical treatment or myomectomy is also recommended when the patient wants to preserve his or her fertility. Total Abdominal or Vaginal hysterctomy accompanied by Bilateral Salpingo-oophorectomy is as well a good choice for treatment.
32089	Leishmaniasis is a deadly disease, but once diagnosed, it can be treated with medications that contain antimony, such as meglumine antimoniate, and sodium stibogluconate. Another effective cure for the disease is Miltifosine. This drug was used to treat patients in Ethiopia as well as Colombia.
32090	Lemierre's syndrome can be easily cured by the use of antibiotics. Common medications used to treat the disease include Beta-lactam antibiotics, metronidazole, third generation cephalosporins and clindamycin.
32091	Lennox-Gastaut syndrome is hard to treat. Steroidal drugs such as immunoglobulins and prednisone are proven to be successful on some few cases.
32092	Being a non-cancerous (benign) lesion, your physician may recommend periodic follow-up evaluations and as well as surgical removal of single lesions that may be difficult to distinguish from malignant lesions, such as melanomas, as treatment for the condition lentigo simplex.
32093	As treatment for the condition, your physician may freeze the area lightly with nitrogen or prescribe a bleaching cream (hydroquinone), but this is often not successful if solar lentigines are cosmetically bothersome.
32095	There was no treatment for leprosy until the 1940s, when the drugs rifampin, clofazimine and dapsone were developed. They were first prescribed in individual dosages, but due to the quick antibiotic resistance evolution of M. leprae, the drugs had to be combined in multi-drug therapy (MDT) in order to work effectively.
32096	Leptospirosis is treated by antibiotics such as penicillin and doxycycline. Supportive therapy measures are as well administered in severe cases, examples of which being detoxication and normalizing hydro-electrolytic balance. Corticosteroids are also prescribed in advanced stages of the disease.
32097	Doctors use symptomatic treatment for the Lesch-Nyhan syndrome. Allopurinol is used to control production of uric acid, while kidney stones are prescribed with lithotripsy. Some drugs meanwhile relieve the patient of some other symptoms, like phenobarbital, haloperidol and diazepam. Behavioral management meanwhile is used to treat the patient's self-mutilating behaviors.
32099	There is no specific treatment for Leucinosis. Patients are then recommended to have consistent and careful monitoring of blood chemistry paired with a special diet. Patients with the disease are capable of living healthy lives upon consistent diet and test management.
32100	Leukemia, whatever type it is, is generally treated by induction chemotherapy. This is the administration of chemotherapeutic drugs to kill the cancer cells in the bone marrow. CNS prophylaxis meanwhile is a preventive therapy that keeps the cancer from spreading into the nervous system. Patients also take maintenance drugs during recovery stage.
32101	Leukemia, B-Cell, chronic is treated by chemotherapy, biological therapy, bone marrow transplant and radiotherapy. Other cases of the disease undergo surgery such as splenectomy or by radiation therapy. Medicines such as purine analogues are used in order to prevent relapses. Stem cell transplants meanwhile are also being tested as a good method in treating the disease.
32102	Both kinds of myeloid leukemia can be treated by remission-inducing chemotherapy, as well as hematopoietic stem cell transplant for advanced cases.
32103	Afflicted patients are rarely responsive to treatment. Alkylating agents (e.g. chlorambucil) are used, but with little or short-lived success. Some patients respond well to CHOP therapy (cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, vincristine, and prednisone), but most responses to this form of treatment are partial or incomplete. In most patients, chronic T-cell leukemia recurs.
32104	The disease is cured by bone marrow transplant and gene therapy.
32106	There is no exact cure for the disease, but bone marrow transplant has shown potential effects that could lead to recovery, although this has only been tried on mild cases.
32107	There is no standard cure for metachromatic leukodystrophy, but gene therapy as well as enzyme replacement therapy are currently under investigation as potential cures to the disease.
32108	Leukomalacia is treated by anticonvulsant topiramate, which is available in drugstores. Patients with the disease should take regular medical screenings to monitor defensive as well as preventive actions towards the disease.
32109	Leukoplakia can be treated by avoiding the factors that may lead to the onset of the disease.
32110	Levator syndrome can be treated by walking and pelvic exercises, as well as massage treatments in the affected muscles, biofeedback and warm baths. Botulin toxin A or botox is also sometimes used.
32111	Finding the right treatment for this mental condition can be quite challenging, and there is no real cure for Lewy body dementia. Medications include cholinesterase inhibitors, antidepressants and anticonvulsants, and the similar medications of Parkinson's disease medications.
32112	Treatment for Lewy Body Disease focuses primarily on symptom management; it's helpful to take as proactive an approach as possible from the outset. This means working with your physician to control the symptoms and make lifestyle changes to accommodate the effects of the disease.
32113	There is no exact cure for the disease, and symptomatic treatments are used for limb and face reconstructions.
32114	Genetic counseling and testing are used to determine if a person has the Li-Fraumeni syndrome. When discovered early then the cancers spun out from disease can be easily treated.
32115	Over-the-counter lotions or shampoos (Nix, Rid, others) are generally the first line of defense against head lice. However, if nonprescription products don't kill the lice, the doctor can prescribe a stronger shampoo or lotion, like malathion or lindane.
32116	THis condition gets better on its own, but therapy may be seeked for cosmetic reasons, such as steroids, antihistamines, retinoids, and phototherapy.
32117	Lichen planus can be treated by the use of oral and topical steroids, hydroxychloroquine, tacroluimus and oral retinoids. The disease may set in a dormant state after a series of treatment.
32118	Treatment differs depending on the severity of symptoms and the cause of the condition, if known. Mild symptoms may need only self-care measures and periodic observation by the doctor. More bothersome symptoms may be treated with ointments or creams to lessen inflammation and itching of the mouth.
32119	Patients with lichen sclerosus of nongenital skin usually do not need treatment because the symptoms are very mild and usually go away over time. (The amount of time involved differs from patient to patient.)
32120	To stop the stubborn itch-scratch style, the person must stop scratching the affected area. The doctor may also recommend one or more of the following: prescription medication, wet dressings, and counseling.
32122	The disease is treated by potassium-sparing diuretics, such as amiloride and triamterene. These drugs block the sodium channel which stops the disease from growing.
32123	The doctor may order an x-ray of the injury to make sure there is no broken a bone. If there is severe sprain, the patient may need a splint to keep the injured area immobile so it will heal. If he scratched or tore some skin, he may also need a tetanus shot.
32124	Special exercise and physical therapy is administered on persons with Limb-girdle muscular dystrophy. Calipers may also be used to keep mobile support on the patient.
32125	Treatment for lip cancer may involve surgery to remove the cancerous mass, radiation therapy, and chemotherapy.
32127	There is no standard treatment for the disease, but glucocorticoids are presrcribed to cover to cover the stress due to adrenal deficiency.
32128	No treatment is required for a lipoma, but if it is in a bothersome location, it may be removed. Other treatments include steroid injections, liposuction, and surgical removal.
32130	Treatment for lissencephaly is symptomatic and varies according to the severity and location of the brain dysfunctions. Genetic testing is often recommended to determine possibilities of the disease.
32131	Lissencephaly treatment is focused on managing symptom, depending on the location and severity the malformations. Often, supportive healthcare is required to provide comfort and meet nursing needs. Seizures of afflicted individuals can be managed through medication, but the hydrocephalus may need to be shunted. If the patient experiences nutritional problems due to difficulty in feeding, a gastronomy tube may be recommended.
32132	In cases of CNS infection, the L. monocytogenes can usually be cultured from the blood. No reliable stool or serological tests are known to date. Treatment for bacteremia often lasts for 2 weeks. Meningitis must be treated for 3 weeks, while 6 weeks is the minimum for brain abscess. The antibiotic of choice is usually ampicillin. Gentamicin may also be added for its synergistic effects.
32133	Listeriosis is treated with antibiotics such as ampicillin, and gentamicin. It is also best to eat fresh, and properly cleaned and cooked vegetables all the time.
32134	Treatment for kidney stones varies, depending on the kind of stone and the cause. The person may be able to move a stone through the urinary tract simply by drinking plenty of water - as much as 2 to 3 quarts (1.9 to 2.8 liters) a day - and by staying physically active.
32135	Some patients undergo therapies exposing them repeatedly to their fear, which sometimes help reducing their fear. Others are prescribed with medications, which may cause harm due to side effects or withdrawal symptoms because they only chemically suppress the symptoms.
32136	The preferred choice of treatment for liver abscess is a medication called metronidazole (Flagyl). In some cases, surgical intervention may be necessary to drain the abscess and relieve some of the symptoms, particularly chronic abdominal pain.
32137	Treatments for primary liver cancer depend on the extent (stage) of the disease as well as your age, overall health, feelings and personal preferences. Explain all of your options carefully with your treatment team.
32138	The disease can be treated by taking action on underlying causes as well as preventing complications like those of ascites and esophageal variceal bleeding. For severe cases, there comes a need for liver transplant.
32139	The tumors may be treated by surgical resectioning, sealed source radiotherapy, radiotherapy ablation, and in the most severe cases, liver transplantation.
32140	Some treatments include: medications, laser therapy, freexing, dermabrasion, and chemical peel.
32142	There is no specific treatment for the Locked-In syndrome. Some patients undergo neuromuscular stimulation in the hope to regain some muscular function.
32143	Treatment can include use of a tetanus antitoxin, such as tetanus immune globulin (TIG). However, the antitoxin can neutralize only toxin that hasn't combined yet with nerve tissue. The doctor may also give antibiotics, either orally or by injection, to fight tetanus bacteria. The patient may also need to receive a tetanus vaccine in order to prevent future tetanus infection.
32145	Treatment is done by managing the symptoms shown by the patient. Loeys-Dietz is a lifelong illness. Vascular surgery can be done on patients who show high risks of aneurysm. Angiotensin II receptor antagonist losartan is still tested if it could be used to prevent aneurysms.
32147	There is no standard cure for this condition, and treaments rely on pain-relieving measures instead.
32148	The condition is treated by arrhythmia suppression involving several medications to slow down adrenergic stimulation, among of which being potassium supplements, amd Mexiletine. Others meanwhile consider arrhythmia termination by the replacing it with an implantable cardioverter-defilibrillator.
32152	The characteristic spinal deformity of lordosis may be treated through the following methods: postural correction; the use of a spinal brace for back support; or taking medications that specifically target the underlying medical conditions.
32153	Currently, no known cure has been found to treat Lou Gehrig's Disease. Recently, however, a new drug treatment has been approved for the disease: Riluzole (Rilutek). This medication is expected to decrease the release of glutamate, thus leading to a significant reduction of the motor neuron damage. Clinical trials have shown that Riluzole increases survival rate among patients. Other treatment strategies for Lou Gehrig's disease focus mainly on alleviating symptoms and improving the quality of life of afflicted individuals.
32154	Treatment for Louis Bar syndrome focuses on managing symptoms and providing supportive care to patients. To maintain flexibility, physical and occupational therapies may be involved. In some cases, a speech therapist is also recommended. To supplement the compromised immune system, gamma-globulin is injected, along with high doses of vitamins. To manage infections, antibiotics are prescribed.
32155	Vaccines are given to infected animals in a subcutaneous injection.
32156	Hypoglycemia can be managed by regular checking of blood sugar levels and insulin treatment.
32157	There is no simple pill or potion to add more sex drive in women. In fact, most women receive help from a multifaceted treatment approach aimed at the many causes behind this condition. This may include counseling, sex education, lifestyle changes and sometimes medication.
32159	Treatment is done based on the underlying cause of the illness. Physical therapy and compress can help keep the bones flexible and relaxed, while cortisone injections reduce the swelling for arthritic lower back pain. Tumors, thus, have to be removed.
32160	Extragenital LSA is generally asymptomatic and therefore requires little or no treatment. Symptomatic LSA is more difficult to treat, as no medication has been proven to be completely successful. To date, the only treatment with recorded efficacy in long-term therapy is topical steroids. Though painful and intrusive, photodynamic therapy is sometimes required if squamous cell cancer is suspected.
32161	A standard treatment for syphilis is penicillin, or more specifically, penicillin G. Penicillin has a high rate of success in curing the infection, with strong efficacy in prenatal or early stage treatment. Patients who are allergic to penicillin may be treated alternatively with oral tetracycline or doxycycline. Ceftriaxone may also be considered.
32162	Several differing schools of thought are involved in the treatment of known phobias. Strategies vary from using virtual imagery, to cognitive behavioral therapy, to desensitization therapy, and even hypnosis. In most cases, anti-anxiety drugs may prove particularly helpful. Benzodiazepines are often prescribed for short-term usage. Several alternative psychotherapeutic methods also exist, but these remain a subject of much debate.
32163	In most cases, lumbago can be easily treated with rest, pain medications, and physiotherapy. Targeting the underlying cause is also an important step in therapy.
32164	Treatment for lung abscess involves a combination of antibiotic medications, oxygen therapy, and surgery. Common antibiotics used to target lung abscess are clindamycin, penicillin V, and penicillin G, which may be taken intravenously or orally. In severe cases, surgery may be required to remove the damaged part of the lungs or to drain the abscess. Supportive care usually follows.
32165	Treatment strategies for lung cancer patients depend on the specific cell type of the cancer, its extent and severity, as well as the patient's health. Common modes include chemotherapy, radiation therapy, and surgery to remove the intervening mass.
32166	If the patient has had more than one pneumothorax, he may have treatments to prevent further recurrences. The most common is a surgical procedure known as video-assisted thoracoscopy, which uses small incisions and a tiny video camera to guide the surgery.
32168	Treatment for lupus depends on your signs and symptoms. Recognizing whether your signs and symptoms should be treated and what medications to use requires a careful discussion of the benefits and risks with your doctor. As the signs and symptoms flare and subside, you and your doctor may find that you'll need to change medications or dosages.
32169	There is no standard treatment for the condition; only the symptoms can be minimized.
32170	Treatment for Lupus Erythematosus is often symptomatic in nature, with corticosoids and immunosuppresants as the drugs of choice. However, to date, there is really no specific cure for the disease itself.
32171	Lupus nephritis is commonly treated by medications that decrease swelling, lower bood pressure, or diminish kidney inflammation by suppressing the immune system. Intakes of sodium, protein, and potassium will need to be restricted. Depending on symptom severity, some patients may need steroid therapy or chemotherapy.
32172	Currently, there is no known cure for epidermodysplasia verruciformis. High doses of vitamin A may, however, provide some symptomatic relief.
32173	In treating Lyell's syndrome, the first step should be stopping the culprit drugs immediately. Management of symptoms is possible through intensive care units, burn units, supportive environment, and nutritional support. IV immunoglobulin may also be administered. Other recommended medications include cyclosporin, cyclophosphamide, plasmapheresis, pentoxifylline, N-acetylcysteine, ulinastatin, infliximab, and/or Granulocyte colony-stimulating factors.
32175	Lyme disease can be treated with antibiotics, such as doxycycline, amoxicillin and ceftriaxone. Cefuroxime and cefotaxim, or alternatively, macrolide antibiotics, may also be used. The disease can be eliminated if treated early or at the onset. If untreated, lyme disease may advance to a "late stage" that may prove difficult to treat. Late lyme disease can be disabling to afflicted patients.
32176	The medications given for lymphadenitis differ according to the bacterium or virus that is causing it. If the patient also has lymphangitis, he or she will be treated with antibiotics, typically penicillin G (Pfizerpen, Pentids), nafcillin (Nafcil, Unipen), or cephalosporins.
32177	Treatment for swollen lymph nodes from other causes depends on the cause: Infection is the most common treatment for swollen lymph nodes caused by a bacterial infection is antibiotics. Immune disorder if the swollen glands are a result of HIV, lupus or rheumatoid arthritis, treatment is directed at the underlying condition. Cancer swollen glands caused by cancer needs treatment for the cancer.
32178	A low-fat, high-protein diet is imposed in lymphangiectasia treatment. In humans, the disease can be managed with medium chain triglycerides (MCT) or Octreotides.
32179	Treatment with progestin in attempt to reduce the effects of the female hormone estrogen is used to those women who are in their premenopausal stage. In the case of those women who are at their childbearing age, treatments involving diminishing the effect of estrogen are employed. Treatment for LMA also includes therapeutic approaches. Respiratory care are also used to relieve shortness of breathing and if the disease becomes severe, lung transplantation may also be considered.
32180	Although most cases of lymphangiomas do not require treatment, these benign masses can be removed surgically. However, such surgery will also remove several layers of skin and surrounding tissues because lymphangiomas tend to grow deep beneath the surface.
32181	Treatment for lymphatic filariasis includes administration of Albendazole and Ivermectin to kill circulating larvae and adult worms. Pressure bandages and some exercise are also encouraged to reduce the swelling. Secondary infections, on the other hand are treated through use of soap and water to clean and care the skin affected with the swelling.
32182	The following are the most common and accepted treatments for chronic lymphedema, to wit: Sequential Gradient Pump Therapy Compression bandaging, Complete Decongestive Therapy or CDT, therapeutic exercises, proper skin care, compression pumps, kinesio taping and other surgical techniques such as circumferential excision of the lymphedematous tissue and lympholymphatic anastomosis.
32183	Based on extent and severity, some symptoms of lymphocytic choriomeningitis - particularly encephalitis, aseptic meningitis, and meningoencephalitis - require the patient to be hospitalized and given supportive treatment. Treatment may also involve anti-inflammatory drugs such as corticosteroids, along with ribavirin to target the infection.
32184	Affected individuals may undergo epilation, cryotherapy, or lid splitting surgery. The extra lashes are usually visible thus, slit lamp examination is not required to confirm the diagnosis.
32185	Treatment of the medical condition includes chemotherapy. It also includes oral medication to remove the other remaining affected cells.
32186	The most common and easiest ways of treating lymphocytic colitis are through administration of over-the-counter antidiarrhea drugs and anti-inflammatory drugs such as salicylates. Lymphotic colitis respond well to mesalazine and collagenous colitis to budesonide (Fernandez- Baares F, Salas A, Esteve M, Espins J, Forn M, Viver J (2003). "Collagenous and lymphocytic colitis. evaluation of clinical and histological features, response to treatment, and long-term follow-up.". Am J Gastroenterol 98 (2): 340-7).
32187	Treatment includes intake of antibiotics with bubo drainage or abscesses by performing needle aspiration or incision.
32187	Lymphogranuloma venereum can be completely treated with appropriate antibiotic therapies, such as erythromycin, doxycycline, and tetracycline.
32188	As treatment for LGV, blood and fluid culture tests may be done as well as testing for other sexually transmitted diseases, such as syphilis, gonorrhea, HIV, Chlamydia and hepatitis; people who have had sexual contact with anyone who has LGV within 60 days before the affected person had symptoms should be examined and tested; and, antibiotics cure infection and prevent ongoing tissue damage, but they will not help remove scars.
32189	Just like any cancers, lymphoma is cured through early diagnosis and treated by chemotherapy, radiation therapy and other therapies that may include conventional anti-metabolites, stem cell transplants, and engineered T-cells designed to selectively target hematopoietic cancers (Scheinberg,D.A and Jurcic,J. 2004 Treatment of Leukemia and Lymphoma).
32195	There is currently no cure to this disease but there is a protocol being run by Dr. Wyndham H. Wilson at the NIH which has had extraordinary results in which a significant percentage of participants see extended remission periods. The experimental treatment involves the use of interferons to re-set the immune system (National Cancer Institute: Clinical Trials at NIH: Clinical Research: Clinical Trial Spotlight: Lymphomatoid Granulomatosis NCI-94-C-0074).
32196	Treatment includes chemoratherapy.
32197	Colon cancer linked with Lynch syndrome is treated similarly to other types of colon cancer. However, surgery for Lynch syndrome colon cancer is more likely to involve the removal of more of the colon, since people with Lynch syndrome have a high risk of having additional colon cancer in the future.
32198	Treatment includes protein restriction diet and citrulline supplement.
32199	There is no specific or exact treatment for this kind of disease. However, treatment to its symptoms includes administration of antibiotics especially for patients with frequent respiratory infections. Physical therapy and to some extent bone marrow transplantation are also administered.
32200	Bone marrow transplant and enzyme replacement therapies including gene therapies are possible treatment for the disease (Ponder KP, Haskins ME (2007). "Gene therapy for mucopolysaccharidosis". Expert Opin Biol Ther 7 (9): 1333-45).
32201	If administered promptly, usually within 6 days from infection, post-exposure prophylaxis (PEP) can be particularly successful in treating lyssavirus infections. In addition, the wounds or bite sites must be meticulously washed with soap and water; and, if possible, applied with virucidal antiseptics such as iodine tincture, aqueous iodine solution, povidone-iodine, or alcohol (ethanol). Some patients may receive a dose of immunoglobulin through the abdominal wall.
32202	There is no specific treatment for Mac Ardle Disease but oral vitamin B6 is advised to create greater resistance to fatigue. Aerobic exercise and high protein diet are also advised.
32203	There is currently no specific treatment that can cure Machado-Joseph Disease. Therapy is mostly focused on alleviating some of the symptoms. The spasticity, for example, can be diminished with antispasmodic drugs like baclofen.
32204	Treatment includes the monoclonal antibody rituximab and combined with chemotherapeutic drugs.
32205	Surgery is the most common treatment for the enlargement of the tongue.
32206	There is no known cure yet for Macular Degeneration but additional lighting and magnifiers can help in alleviating its symptoms.
32207	There is no known cure yet for Juvenile Macular Degeneration but there are additional lighting and magnifiers can help in alleviating its symptoms.
32208	There is no known cure yet for Age-Related Macular Degeneration but additional lighting and magnifiers can help in alleviating its symptoms.
32209	There is no known cure yet for Polymorphism Macular Degeneration but additional lighting and magnifiers can help in alleviating its symptoms.
32210	In some cases, macular holes close spontaneously without any treatment. In most cases, however, it is almost invariably necessary to surgically seal the wall and restore vision on the affected eye. Surgical repair of macular holes involves removing the eye's vitreous gel in a procedure called vitrectomy to eliminate any traction on the macula. A gas bubble is then injected to place a small amount of pressure on the macula and help the help to seal. Vision is typically restored soon after the bubble dissipates.
32211	As of the moment there is no known cure for mad cow disease.
32212	No specific medical treatment is needed but those affected with it are advised to have regular check up for physical examination for evaluation of the changes in the skin and bones. In some cases, orthopedic surgeons are needed to evaluate bone changes.
32213	Magnesium deficiency can be treated with dietary changes and oral high-magnesium supplements. In severe cases, magnesium may need to be intravenously supplied to the body.
32214	There is no known cure for the condition but displacement exercise like jogging and bicycling is helpful.
32215	Treatment for malabsorption depends on the specific nutrient being inadequately absorbed. Typical measures are dietary restrictions along with certain medications like antibiotics, enzyme replacements, or anti-diarrehals. In severe cases, surgery may be required to correct any anatomical defect or related causative condition.
32216	Today, antibiotics are used for treatment of malakoplakia.
32217	Malarial infections are treated with a combination of supportive measures and the administration of specific antimalarial drugs. Malaria infections due to the P. falciparum parasite require immediate hospitalization, other cases caused by other malaria causing parasites can be treated even without necessary hospitalization.
32218	Treatments exist for every type and stage of breast cancer. Some men would need only surgery. Others will need surgery and an additional (adjuvant) therapy like radiation, chemotherapy or hormone therapy.
32219	For hypogonadism as a result of testicular failure, doctors use male hormone replacement (testosterone replacement therapy, or TRT). TRT can bring back sexual function and muscle strength and prevent bone loss. Additionally, men receiving TRT often experience an increase in energy, sex drive and sense of well-being.
32220	Treatment can be done by testosterone replacement therapy to help acquire sexual satisfaction. This treatment can impose side effects, however, such as prostate cancer. A healthy lifestyle can keep one up from feeling the signs of aging.
32222	The highly suggested treatment for malignant fibrous histiocytoma is surgical excision of the tumor. Chemotherapy is also another form of treatment or a combination of both.
32223	At present, the most widely used medication to treat malignant hyperthermia includes Dantrolene (administration is done intravenously), withdrawing from exposure to triggering agents and supportive therapy for the purpose of correcting hyperthermia, acidosis, and any organ dysfunction as well as any consequential complication.
32224	Supportive treatment is the most valuable approach in treating the disorder. Epinephrine injection or cauterization (referred to as burning the body for the purpose of removing a part of closing a body part) is sometimes options undertaken to stop the bleeding. This is usually carried out during the index endoscopy procedure. In rare cases, embolization or removing a blockage in the arteries can also be considered in order to stop the bleeding.
32227	Since the cause of Malouf syndrome is still not yet clearly established, treatment is only aimed in correcting the underlying symptoms manifested by the disorder. Correcting cardiomyopathy is also part of the therapeutic goals for this syndrome.
32228	The disease responds well to antibiotics. The vaccine called Strain 19 was developed in the 1950s to help prevent the onset of the disease.
32230	The doctor may prescribe a 10- to 14-day course of antibiotics to treat any infection caused by mammary duct ectasia. Even if symptoms greatly improve or disappear altogether, it's important to take the entire course of medication. While waiting for the antibiotics to take effect, take a mild pain reliever, such as acetaminophen (Tylenol, others) or ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin, others) as required for breast discomfort.
32231	Manic depression, bipolar disorder cannot be cured but proper management approach can be carried out including pharmacological and psychological techniques.
32233	Treatment of Mansonelliasis is a challenging act because patients often do that return after a consultation. Mebendazole can be considered in treating the infection. Albendazole is also one of the effective treatments for the purpose of decreasing the parasite; though the high price of this medication makes it impracticable for mass campaign in many endemic areas. Another option in the treatment of Mansonelliasis is Ivermectin.
32234	The following are some of the approaches used in the treatment of Mantle cell lymphoma: * Chemotherapy * Radiotherapy * Monoclonal anti-body therapy * Interferon * Steroid therapy * Bone marrow and stem cell infusions
32235	Treatment for Map-Dot-Fingerprint Dystrophy is mostly focused on managing pain that results from epithelial erosions. An eye patch may be recommended to immobilize the affected eye and allow it to heal. Lubricating eye drops and ointments may also be applied to facilitate healing. Other forms of treatment available include: anterior corneal punctures, corneal scraping, and excimer laser to repair surface irregularities.
32236	Long term treatment requires a special diet. The diet has a synthetic infant formula with low levels of the amino acids leucine, isoleucine, and valine. Person with this condition must remain on this diet permanently. It is more important to always stick to this diet to prevent neurological damage. This needs frequent blood tests and close supervision by a registered dietitian and a physician, as well as parental cooperation.
32237	There is no single treatment for Marburg fever; supportive treatment is the usual approach in alleviating the symptoms and underlying complications of the infection including hospitalization. DIAGNOSIS Diagnosis of Marburg fever is often difficult because of the similarity of the symptoms of the disease with other infectious diseases. As a result early diagnosis is impossible if only few definitive symptoms manifests.
32239	Usual cases of Marcus Gunn phenomenon do not necessitate treatment; however severe cases may take advantage of a surgery named as bilateral levator excision and frontalis brow suspension.
32240	There is no cure for Marek's disease; to prevent spreading of infection, diseased birds should be removed from the flock and humanitarianly destroyed.
32241	There is no specific treatment for Marfan syndrome as a disease.
32242	Supportive treatment is the approach applicable to Marinesco-Sjogren syndrome including: * Physical therapy * Speech therapy * Occupational therapy * Special education (SPED) Symptomatic treatment aimed at correcting manifested symptoms like removing the cataracts that impairs the vision or hormone replacement therapy for cases related to hypogonadism.
32243	There is no specific cure for Maroteaux-Lamy syndrome; however supportive management based on alleviating the effects of the symptom and correcting the existing symptoms can improve the quality of life and diminish the potential damage to organs and tissue by reducing the progression of the disease.
32244	There is no cure for Marshall syndrome as a whole but the symptoms produced by the syndrome must be treated.
32245	Long hospital care involving treatment for severe respiratory problems is usually necessary for Marshall-Smith syndrome. Supportive treatment aimed at treating the present symptoms and minimizing the development of complications is usual part of management of the syndrome.
32246	Treatment of the disease is done by management of the symptoms. Special education programs can help patients with their learning disabilities, as well as constant emotional support from family and friends.
32247	Symptoms of masculinisation may be treated with estrogen replacement therapy, medications such as anti-androgen drugs, as well as targeted therapy for the underlying cause.
32248	There is still no cure for Mast cell disease but there are several medications that can help in the treatment and management of the symptoms. For example: * Antihistamines * Epinephrine to constrict blood vessels and open airways for adequate circulation * Mast cell stabilizers to aid in inhibiting the release of the chemical contents of the mast cells * Corticosteroids to reduce inflammation
32249	These may include: birth control pills; bromocriptine (which blocks prolactin in the hypothalamus); ganazol, a male hormone; thyroid hormones; and amoxifen, an estrogen blocker.
32250	Treatment includes oral administration of antibiotics for 10-14 days.
32251	Currently, mastocytosis has no cure but some medicines exist only treat the symptoms. Such medicines include Antihistamines, Leukotriene, or mast cell stabilizers. However, only Cromolyn Sodium Oral Solution is approved by the U.S. FDA for treating mastocytosis. Clinical trials that test stem cell transplants are also forms of treatment. Some patients also join support groups for emotional therapy.
32251	There is currently no cure for mastocytosis. However, there are a number of medicines to help treat the symptoms of mastocytosis: Antihistamines block receptors targeted by histamine released from mast cells. Both H1 and H2 blockers can be helpful. Leukotriene antagonists block receptors targeted by leukotrienes removed from mast cells. A mast cell stabilizer helps prevent mast cells from releasing their chemical contents. Cromolyn Sodium Oral Solution (Gastrocrom / Cromoglicate) is the only one medicine specifically approved by the U.S.FDA for the treatment of mastocytosis.
32252	The primary treatment for it is using intravenous antibiotics such as Ceftriaxone (Rocephin). A culture test can usually provide more specific treatment. In some cases, surgery such as a myringotomy may have to be performed to complement the medication.
32254	Maternal death requires no treatment. However, preventive steps may be taken to avoid conditions usually associated with maternal death.
32255	Doctors often initiate standard diabetes treatments such as insulin and oral hypoglycemic agents. Treatment is dependent on the affected individual.
32256	Since it is a metabolic disorder, the most successful treatment programs involve the proper utilization of glycogen to capitalize on the disorder's cycle. Any kind of anaerobic exercise that involves intense muscle movement must be avoided.
32257	In 2005, a teenager underwent an emergency procedure during which the doctors surgically removed an abnormal growth of bone from her face. The bone was was 16 ounds. It was followed by a series of operations that has improved the child's face to a more normal proportion.
32258	There is no specific treatment or any kind of antiviral therapy for uncomplicated measles and patients will normally recover with rest and supportive treatment for the duration of the disease. Complications however can happen like pneumonia and this presents an additional challenge in the treatment.
32259	Treatment of the disorder is normally directed towards specific symptoms manifested by patients.
32260	Treatment includes oral administration of ibuprofen medicine and aspirin to lessen the pain and inflammation. Also, home treatments may also work like application of ice pack to the injured area for at least 15 minutes and elevating the tibial of the shin above the level of the heart and compressing the area injured with a bandage.
32261	A well-directed and appropriate administration of antibiotic therapy, which is usually the prolonged treatment approach for people suffering from mediastinal fibrosis. Nutritional support is also required since studies have shown that regulated diets that primarily include omega-3 fatty acids can greatly benefit majority of the critical patients with sepsis.
32262	For minor cases, no treatment is required. However, regular blood transfusion may be necessary for severe conditions.
32263	Treatment, normally for the attacks include medications such analgesia and non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs. The drug colchicines which is a medicine used gout, has been shown to effectively decrease frequency of attacks, although it does have some side effects.
32264	There is no cure for the deficiency but its adverse effects can be prevented by proper health management. Patients with the disorder should have adequate energy levels which mean no lengthy fasting. Lack of appetite caused by other illnesses or conditions makes it necessary for intravenous glucose to prevent the body from depending on fatty acids for energy. Patients with the disorder should stick to a low-fat diet. The taking of carnitine supplements have been shown to be effective in arresting toxic accumulation of fatty acids
32265	There is no cure for disease and treatment is normally symptom specific
32266	Treatment begins surgical intervention as well radiation and chemotherapy. The outcome for children less than 3 years old, and for those with CSF, spinal, supratentorial or systemic spreading is not good.
32267	Again, there is no cure and treatment is usually based on specific symptoms. Rehabilitative efforts are done for those experiencing severe joint or arthritic pain which can be debilitating
32268	Treatments of the Megacolon includes undergoing surgery called the pull-through surgery which will remove the section of the colon that has no ganglia and thereafter connects the remaining colon to the rectum. Another s through Ostomy which will make a stoma or small hole in the person's abdomen and thereafter connects the colon to the stoma where the stool will pass through the stoma where a bag is attached.
32269	Treatment for megalencephaly is mostly symptomatic and supportive. No medication or other treatment techniques can cure the disorder; therefore, therapy is focused on managing symptoms; reducing discomforts; and improving the patient's quality of life.
32270	Treatment can be a simply case of diet change and Vitamin B12 injections; the physician can recommend a diet program based on a patient's unique set of circumstances.
32271	There are currently three kinds of treatments used for for hemifacial spasms; neurological approach, surgical approach, and the use of Botulinum toxin injections or more popularly known as botox. In some relatively milder cases, some doctors even prescribe medications or even recommend biofeedback training. Medical intervention is focused on drug therapy although the success rate in controlling spasms though such drugs as diazepam, levodopa, methyldopa, lithium, clonopine, lioresal, and tetrabenazine have been modestly successful. Another option is surgery which are dictated in part by how severe the spasms are. If the cause is found to be a blood vessel affecting the facial nerve, surgery would have to re-adjust its position. Another method of treatment is injection with the popular cosmetic agent Botox; small amounts of the toxin are injected into the eyelid muscles to stop spasms lasting for months.
32272	Treatment may include the following: surgical removal especially those unusually looking moles, chemotherapy in order to destroy the cancerous cells, Radiation therapy, and immunotherapy or the biological therapy which usually helps the person in boosting their immune system to help their body fight the cancer cells.
32273	Treating melanomas means choosing surgery as the optimal choice especially for melanoma that is localized. A biopsy is important to determine the stage of a lymph node which would then dictate what kind of surgery would be performed. For cases where there has been some metastasis, radiation and chemotherapy may be used.
32274	Your physician may wish to perform a skin biopsy in order to confirm the diagnosis, if the diagnosis of oral melatonic macule is not certain. The treatment procedure involves the numbing of the skin with an injectable anesthetic; sampling a small piece of skin by using a flexible razor blade, a scalpel or a tiny cookie cutter (called a ?punch biopsy?), where if it is taken, a suture or two may be placed and will need to be removed 5-10 days later; and, having the skin sample examined under a microscope by a specially trained physician (dermatopathologist).
32275	There is no known cure for MELAS which unfortunately is progressive and fatal; treatment is afforded to patients depending on what part of the body is currently affected.
32276	As treatment for melasma, use bleaching agents (hydroquinone 4%) carefully. You can not apply these agents to the normally pigmented surrounding skin, since a normal skin may also be bleached. You can use hydroquinone under the supervision of a physician, as side effects, such as darkening of the skin may occur. Other treatments include superficial chemical peels (application of an acid to remove the top layers of the skin) and mirodermabrasion (a facial sanding technique) may offer additional help; a topical agent, azelaic acid may also be helpful; and, laser therapy, although it has not yet been shown to be a satisfactory treatment.
32277	Drug therapy remains the best choice for treatment. The use of oral retinoids has been proven to be effective in both children and adults although caution is advised for women patients who plan to get pregnant. The drug also presents side-effects such as mucosal dryness, epistaxis and cheilitis
32278	Treatment for the disease is a two-step approach; the first step involves a high intensity intravenous stage and the second step involves an aggressive oral maintenance stage to keep the disease from recurring.
32279	The treatment of choice is based on symptoms and include drug therapies using nonsteroidal anti- inflammatory drugs and corticosteroids to reduce the facial swelling Other drugs used include antibiotics and immunosuppressants. Surgery may be a possible option if it becomes necessary to relieve pressure on the facial nerves as well as to reduce tissue that has become excessively swollen. Other treatments to alleviate the swlling include massages and even electrical stimulation. The disease may recur intermittently after it makes its first appearance and can develop into a chronic disorder.
32280	Different forms of treatment are given to patients with memory loss. Persons with amnesia are slowly brought back to places and people whom they lived their past with in order to remember some memories. Senile dementia is addressed with appropriate moral support as well as high-iron diet. Aphasia can be treated with speech therapy.
32281	Menarche does not require any particular treatment. However, some women may experience chronic pain during menarche, in which case medications to relieve pain and manage other symptoms may be required.
32282	For adults, there is no other viable treatment other than gastrectomy and going on a monitored high- protein diet. In the surgery, part or all of the stomach may need to be taken out if the disease has progressed to such a point that damage has become extensive. In pediatric cases where the prognosis is often better, patients are treated for specific symptoms after which the disease is expected to clear up within weeks or months.
32283	Most cases of meningiomas rarely spread beyond the meninges, and therefore require little or no treatment. For malignant meninges cancers, treatment may involve surgical removal of the offending mass along with radiation therapy and radiosurgery.
32284	Surgery is the best option for them and tumors can be resected with a permanent cure if the tumor is merely superficial and locate on the dural surface which is easily accessible. Recurrence is likely for tumors that are not accessible such as those found in the medial sphenoid bone, parasellar region, or anterior brainstem. Radiation therapy is the option for inaccessible tumors.
32285	Once identified, antibiotics must be given even before conclusive results from lumbar puncture or CSF is out. Additional treatments include usage of corticosteroids to arrest mortality, permanent hearing loss and possible neurological damage.
32286	Antibiotics are the main form of treatment for meningitis.
32287	The most effective line of defense in this regard is a vaccine; there are different kinds depending on the country because there are different strains of the bacteria. There is evidence to point out that some of these vaccines may not be quite effective. Precaution should be made especially when there are confirmed reports of the disease being in close proximity. Extreme hygiene should be observed to limit exposure. At the onset of the disease, powerful antibiotics is the best recourse.
32288	As for treatment, there is currently no cure for the nerve damage that is caused by spina bifida. Preventing further damage to the nervous tissue as well as arresting infection makes it necessary for pediatric neurosurgeons to operate in order to close the opening on the back
32289	Patients are closely monitored and admitted in the hospital's intensive care unit. They administered with antibiotics through a vein. If they develop bleeding disorders, patients undergo platelet replacement. Other treatments also include fluids administered through a vein, blood pressure medications, or wound care for patients with blood clots in some areas of the skin. Family members and friend with infected persons are recommended to take preventive antibiotics or vaccines. However, vaccines do not provide significant protection after three years. Persons must limit their exposure to reduce possibilities of infection through basic hygiene measures.
32290	Preventing further damage to the nervous tissue as well as arresting infection makes it necessary for pediatric neurosurgeons to operate in order to close the protrusions.
32292	Treatment includes the administration of pain reliever and orthotic instruments. Resting and using Ice pack may also be of great use to alleviate the pain. In some cases, Arthroscopic Surgery may be also used.
32293	Treatment for Menkes disease includes subcutaneous or intravenous injections of copper supplements to compensate for the deficiency. Other forms of treatment are mostly symptomatic and supportive.
32294	It may be alleviated through medical treatments. Hormone replacement therapy and SSRIs provide the best relief, but equine estrogens and synthetic progestin forms of HRT appear to increase health risks, especially in women who start this treatment after menopause.
32295	The condition is often being treated with hormones, particularly as dysfunctional uterine bleeding commonly occurs in the early and late menstrual years when contraception is also sought. Commonly oral combined contraceptive or progesterone only pills may be taken for a few months, but for longer-term treatment the alternatives of injected Depo Provera or the more recent progesterone releasing IntraUterine System may be used.
32296	Secondary dysmenorrhea is treated by treating the underlying cause, which may include antibiotics against an infection or surgery for the removal of fibroids or polyps, or for treating endometriosis. Some women take nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug such as aspirin, ibuprofen or naproxen to ease their pain. Others take low-dose oral contraceptives recommended by their doctors to prevent ovulation. Preventing ovulation may reduce prostaglandin production reducing the severity of cramps.
32297	Treatment is based on the fact that mental retardation is not a disease but a disability. Even its more evident psychological and cognitive conditions should have treatment distinguished from those used for schizophrenia or depression. There is no cure of course for mental retardation, but there are numerous support groups and institutions and programs which ultimately help the person lead a normal and even productive life.
32298	Mild cases of meralgia parenthetica typically resolve without specific treatment. Other cases, on the other hand, usually indicate a potentially serious underlying condition. In such cases, treatment must be focused on treating the underlying cause. In general, meralgia parenthetica can be remedied with self-care measures such as losing weight, wearing loose clothes, reducing time spent on the feet. Medications such as Gabapentin may also be prescribed to manage symptoms. Corrective surgery is very rarely necessary.
32299	In treating meralgia paresthetica (burning thigh pain), the focus is relieving the nerve compression that's causing the symptoms. Initial treatment requires basic self-care steps, such as wearing loose clothing or losing weight. Medications may also be used to treat symptoms, including corticosteroid injections, tricyclic antidepressants, and anti-seizure drugs like gabapentin. In rare and severe cases, surgery may be required to decompress the nerves and prevent further complications.
32300	Merasmus treatment is focused on compensating for protein and calorie deficiencies. Nutritional management is an integral part of therapy, and may involve an increase in calorie and nutritional intake with the help of certain food supplements. Other treatment methods focus on managing acute symptoms as well as avoiding further complications.
32301	The front line treatment of mercury poisoning is chelation therapy using DMSA, DMPS or ALA. A study also showed that the sodium salt of 2,3-dimercapto-1-propanesulfonic acid was a promising treatment to lower levels of mercury in the body.
32302	Surgery may be done to attempt to remove the tumor as well as a thin border of skin surrounding the cancerous tissue. If the cancer has spread to the lymph nodes, a lymph node dissection may also be done. In addition, Merkel cell cancer may be treated with radiation therapy and chemotherapy.
32303	Treatment for the condition whether chronic or acute means re-opening the affected artery to enable good blood flow to reach the intestine. Because time is crucial, most surgeries performed for this condition may be immediate. Typical surgeries include trans-aortic endarterectomy which removes the plaque blocking the mesenteric artery; bypass surgery, angioplasty and stenting. For clotting, doctors recommend thrombolytic agents, to dissolve the clot.
32304	Treatment includes administration of pain relievers that are commonly sold over the counter inasmuch as the mild cases of the Mesentric Lymphadenitis most often resolves within a short period of time.
32305	The prognosis for the sudden appearance of the condition is not good; treatment using conventional therapies has proved to be inadequate and the mortality is high.
32306	Normally when the pH level dips below 7.1, the situation is critical because of the possibility of cardiac arrhythmias, and in this regard the first line of treatment may be with intravenous bicarbonate which is given at 50-100 mmol at a time. However, this intervention however will not work in case of lactic acidosis. If the acidosis is exceptionally severe, a nephrology team's recommendation can be useful.
32307	Treatment of the disorder depends on a lot of factors including the patient and symptoms he or she is suffering from. Doctors also take account the extent of the patient's metabolic disorder to determine the appropriate course of treatment.
32308	Lifestyle changes are imperative for those with metabolic syndrome or any of its components. Exercising, losing weight, eating healthy, quitting smoking and living a generally fit lifestyle will derail the development of a range of serious disorders that may arise from metabolic syndrome.
32309	The most obvious treatment is changing a patient's lifestyle which could include a diet restriction and increased physical activity. Drug therapy is also important. But generally, each metabolic symptom is treated separately.
32311	There is no cure for metachromatic leukodystrophy. Treatment is focused mostly on symptom management and supportive care. Various future treatment options are currently being developed in clinical research settings, including the possibility of gene therapy and enzyme replacement therapy (ERT), substrate reduction therapy (SRT), and potentially an enzyme enhancement therapy (EET).
32312	The treatment for metastatic cancer varies according to the type of carcinoma, the original tumor site, and the severity of the disease. Generally, metastatic cancer involves medications to alleviate symptoms, surgical removal of the tumor (if possible), radiation therapy, and chemotherapy, among others.
32313	There is no cure for the genetic defects of the condition. Thus, treatment focuses on therapeutic interventions to prevent or reduce pain or physical disability, increase adult height, or mitigate psychosocial stresses as well as enhance social adaptation. Patients may undergo physical therapy by using braces or other orthotic devices, or by surgical procedures. Others use growth hormone, but it is rarely used. Other patients may also undergo limb-lengthening surgery but most affected individuals do not avail of it.
32314	Patients with methaemoglobinaemia are treated with intravenous supplemental oxygen and methylene blue solution, which restores iron hemoglobin to its normal oxygen-carrying state.
32315	MRSA still respond to certain medications. In hospitals and care facilities, doctors rely on the antibiotic vancomycin to treat resistant germs. CA-MRSA may be treated with vancomycin or other antibiotics that has proved effective against particular strains.
32316	Effective treatment basically consists of the supplements cobalamin and carnitine as well as undergoing a strictly low-protein diet. In some cases, liver and kidney transplants provides the new cells that can metabolize or break down the acid effectively.
32319	Patients are typically treated with medicines to suppress the immune system. However, it often has side effects resulting in the increase the risk of other infections.
32321	Microcephaly has no specific treatment. Some patients undergo treatment based only on their symptoms while other have supportive treatment.
32325	Changes in lifestyle, such as food and caffeine intake, are usually recommended to alleviate the symptoms. Medications may also be recommend and in severe cases, surgery is also an option.
32326	There is no particular treatment for the Microscopic Hematuria itself. However, treatment may focus more on the underlying condition which causes the Microscopic Hematuria.
32327	The disease is typically treated with long term dosage of prednisone. Cytotoxic drugs such as cyclophosphamide or azathioprine are also used alternately or in combination with prednisone. With an acute condition, plasmapheresis may be on the patient to remove ANCA antibodies.
32328	Microsporidia infections are usually self-limited in immunocompetent patients, and therapy is seldom necessary. In immunocompromised patients, must use doctor prescribed drugs to control or reduce the infection.
32329	The absence of the external ear, ear canal, and ear drum is usually treate with surgery. However, if patients have dapted to the condition, they may not opt for surgery.
32330	Parenteral nutrition or an intestinal transplant are the approaches to treating the disease.
32331	A warm or cold cloth is usually applied on the affected area with varying results, some feel better while others feel worse. Patients may take specific migraine drugs, which also produce different results at different times on the same patient. Persons who suffer migraines due to a patent foramen ovale, which is a hole between the upper chambers of the heart, are treated surgically. Surgery of the hole reduces the frequency of attacks. Exercise is also recommended by physicians to reduce the frequency of attacks. If migraines are not severe, sleeping is the solution.
32331	Medications used to combat migraines fall into two broad categories: Pain-relieving medications also known as acute or abortive treatment, these types of drugs are taken during migraine attacks and are designed to stop symptoms that have already begun. Preventive medications a type of drugs are taken regularly, often on a daily basis, to reduce the severity or frequency of migraines.
32332	Treatment includes the administration of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs or NSAID to alleviate the pain.
32335	At the moment there is no treatment used particularly for the Mild Cognitive Impairment. However, the use of Donepezil may be used to treat Alzheimer's Disease. Therapies may also includes supplements of antioxidants and administration of anti-inflammatory agents.
32336	Treatment includes cleaning of the baby's face, proper drying of the infant's skin and avoiding pinching that may cause infections. Creams and medication may also be prescribed.
32337	Reducing sweat is the best treatment for heat rash and it can be done by staying in air-conditioned buildings or, when possible, using fans to circulate the air, wearing lightweight clothing made of fabrics that ?breathe? and limiting physical activity. Heat rash tends to clear quickly once the skin is cool. Severe forms of heat rash may require topical therapies in order to relieve discomfort and prevent complication. Topical treatments may include calamine lotion for soothe itching, anhydrous lanolin, which may help prevent duct blockage and stop new lesions from forming and topical steroids in most serious cases.
32338	The best way to prevent an allergic reaction is through avoidance of milk and other milk products. For children who display severe reactions to milk, parents should always prepare medications to respond to allergic attacks to prevent anaphylactic shocks, which can provide to be quite fatal.
32339	The condition is treated with plasmapheresis and immunoglobulins, after which patients have supportive care. But if severe pulmonary complications and dysautonomia exist, the patient may die.
32341	Treatment includes cooling the skin through staying at an air conditioned room or a room where the air may able to circulate, wearing clothes that makes the skin breath and administration of skin creams like calamine lotion which may be use to lessen the itching and burning sensation, anhydrous lotion which may be use to prevent the blocking of the sweat ducts of the skin.
32342	Treatment for mineral deficiency depends on the type of mineral involved. Some of the most common therapies are: oral or intravenous supplementation of the deficient mineral; medications to treat symptoms; and targeting the underlying condition, if any.
32343	Treatment for the disease includes giving an ACE inhibitor combined with prednisone to regulate blood pressure. The goal is to keep the proteins from leaking out of the kidneys, which can be done by the ACE inhibitor. The symptoms of the disease can also be treated by steroids.
32344	Hemolytic anemia is treated depending on the cause and nature of the breakdown.
32345	Researchers ongoing, treatment options are currently limited, though vitamins are frequently prescribed. Pyruvates have been proposed recently as a treatment option.
32346	Mitochondrial disease have no cures but can be treated only to reduce the symptoms or prevent the progression. Patients are treated based on their need because their response to treatments have varying results; they are also guided by specialists. Patients may also be prescribed with certain vitamins and therapies to help them with their condition.
32349	Individuals with MVP and symptoms of dysautonomia such as palpitations and chest pain may benefit from beta-blockers while those with prior stroke or atrial fibrillation may require blood thinners like aspirin or warfarin. MVP associated with mitral regurgitation meanwhile can be treated with repair or surgical replacement of the mitral valve. Compared to replacement, repair of the mitral valve is mostly preferable but must be done by skilled surgeons. Urgent attention is required for symptomatic patients with evidence of diminished left ventricular function or left ventricular dilatation.
32351	Patients may benefit from beta-blockers while those with previous stroke and/or atrial fibrillation may require blood thinners such as aspirin or warfarin.
32352	Treatment includes monitoring and administration of medication that are used to relieve the body especially the lungs and the legs of body fluids like diuretics. Surgery may be advised by doctors to replace the mitral valve.
32353	Treatment focus more on the curing the symptoms than focusing more on the Mitral valve stenosis condition itself inasmuch as there is really no medicine used to treat it at present. Surgery like balloon valvuplasty, mitral valve repair and replacement.
32354	Treatment includes administration of over the counter pain reliever, and in some cases the use of oral contraceptive inasmuch as it prevents ovulation.
32355	MCTD treatments aim to control symptoms and maintain function. Specific organ involvement and extent of disease activity are targets of medical therapy. It is also important to monitor the development of complications such as pulmonary hypertension or infection.
32356	Mobious syndrome does not have a known single course of medical treatment; treatment is therefore supportive and dependent on the symptoms. Feeding tubes or special bottles may be required for infants to maintain adequate nutrition. Meanwhile, surgery ma be required to correct crossed eyes, improve limb and jaw deformities and to protect the cornea.
32357	Treatment for MODY diabetes depends on its severity, but most therapy options are similar to those of Type 2 diabetes. In some cases, carbohydrate restriction and dietary control are sufficient to regulate blood sugar levels in MODY patients. Other cases may require low doses of insulin or sulfonylurea drugs.
32358	Good glycemic control or keeping the blood sugar level as close to normal as possible is the principal treatment goal for people with MODY. Blood testing, changes in diet, physical exercise, oral hypoglycemic agents, and insulin injections are the available tools for managing the disease, which are also tools for all forms of diabetes.
32359	Moebius syndrome does not have a known single course of medical treatment; meaning, treatment is supportive and dependent on the symptoms. Feeding tubes or special bottles may be utilized for infants to maintain adequate nutrition. Meanwhile, surgery is an option to correct crossed eyes, improve limb and jaw deformities and to protect the cornea.
32360	There is no definite cure for the disease; treatment drugs such as azathioprine can be used to reduce symptoms, especially when there are tumors present. Physical therapy is also recommended to keep the muscles working.
32361	Childhood growth may highlight the symptoms of the syndrome on the face but sometimes it's most suitable that surgical remedies are performed later in life. A rig graft is usually done to correct a disfigured jaw.
32362	The primary goal in the treatment of mold allergy is to provide relief of the symptoms. This includes medications that are specially formulated to help in managing allergic reactions such as inhaled corticosteroids, bronchodilators, and decongestants and antihistamines.
32363	The treatment for atypical moles include biopsy or surgical removal (excision), and may be done so the mole may be examined by a specialist (pathologist) to determine the actual diagnosis; and, people with multiple moles and atypical moles should be followed regularly by a dermatologist.
32364	Though moles are usually harmless, people who wants to take off their unwanted moles may seek their dermatologist for mole removal. For cases where the mole is cancerous, excisional surgery, shave excision and punch biopsy may be used to removed the cancerous moles.
32365	MC usually resolves itself in 6-8 weeks or 2-3 months, that is the virus won't spread via autoinoculation. With autoinoculation, the disease may last up to 8 months or 18 months, with a range of durations from 6 months to five years. Treatments may however shorten the duration of the infection. Using over-the-counter products such as Betadine, astringents, wart medicines, salicylic acid and tretinoin cream. Non-medical treatments like cutting across the head of the lesion with a sterilized needle and removing the papule with an alcohol swab may heal the bumps in 2 to 3 days. Surgical and laser treatments are options.
32367	It is said that no treatment is needed for the condition though analgesics may help with symptomatic relief. Antibiotics have also not been shown to alter the course.
32368	Symptoms will diminish once the individual descends from altitude and the hematocrit return to normal slowly. Bleeding and removal of circulating blood to reduce the hematocrit are among the acute treatment at altitude but are not ideal for extended periods.
32369	There is no known effective treatment for the disorder.
32371	There is no specific treatment for monkeypox disease. In Africa, people who had the smallpox vaccine in the past had a lower risk of monkeypox. CDC has sent out guidelines explaining when smallpox vaccine could be used to protect against monkeypox.
32372	MGUS does not require treatment but doctors may suggest frequent check-ups to monitor a patient's health in order to avoid the development of more serious symptoms.
32373	There is no definite cure for monomelic amyotrophy. Treatment is mostly supportive, designed to help affected individuals optimize muscle function as well as manage any resulting disability. Rehabilitation measures are integrated in overall therapy, including strengthening exercises and hand coordination training. In some extreme cases, orthopedic intervention may be necessary.
32374	Treatments of the disease generally involve rehabilitation programs such as physical therapy, occupational therapy, speech therapy, and recreational therapy.
32375	There is no specific therapy available to treat infectious mononucleosis. Antibiotics do not work against viral infections such as mono. Treatment primarily involves bed rest and adequate fluid intake.
32376	Treatments for morning sickness typically aim to lessen the symptoms of nausea, rather than attacking the root cause of the nausea. Treatments such as: Avoiding an empty stomach. Many sources recommend Cabbage. Eating five or six small meals per day, other than three large ones. Ginger on capsules, tea, ginger ale, or ginger snaps. Vitamin B6 (either pyridoxine or pyridoxamine), Lemons, particularly the smelling of freshly cut lemons.
32377	There is no known treatment for Morphea but there are treatments that focus more on the symptoms as they manifest these includes administration of corticosteroid, antimalarial drugs, physical therapy, immunosuppresive medications, laser treatments and even plastic surgery.
32378	There are no current treatments for the disease. Only palliative procedures are available to manage Morquio syndrome patients. Most physicians also recommend cervical spine fusion to affected patients since all of those with the disorder have odontoid hypoplasia that can lead to atlanoaxial subluxation.
32379	There are only painkilling measures available to treat Morquio syndrome patients. Many physicians also propose cervical spine fusion to affected patients since all of those with the disorder have odontoid hypoplasia that can lead to atlanoaxial subluxation.
32380	Presently, there are only palliative measures available to treat Morquio syndrome patients. Many physicians also recommend cervical spine fusion to affected patients since all of those with the disorder have odontoid hypoplasia that can lead to atlanoaxial subluxation.
32381	Treatment includes resting the foot and administration of over the counter medicines to lessen the inflammation and pain. Corticosteroid injections and surgery may also be used to treat the condition.
32382	There are no specific treatments yet for the disease. Drugs such as azathioprine and prednisolone have been effective in reducing the symptoms of the illness.
32384	While medications may be an acceptable treatment for travelers who occasionally experience motion sickness, the goal for individuals who experience motion sickness on a regular basis or whose work is affected by their symptoms is to learn to control and eventually prevent these symptoms.
32385	Treatment of patients with MND focuses on the relief symptoms associated with the disease. It therefore involves visits and consultations with health professionals such as neurologists, speech-language pathologists, physical therapists, occupational therapists, dieticians, respiratory therapists, social workers, palliative care specialists, specialist nurses and psychologists. ALS meanwhile has no cure and the only drug that affects the course of the disease is riluzole. Riluzole blocks the effects of the neurotransmitter glutamate. It also believed to help extend the life span of the patient but only for a few months.
32386	There is still no current standard treatment for the disease but the use of ascorbic acid has been proposed. Tests have shown some benefit in animal models. A clinical trial is currently being conducted to determine the effectiveness of high doses of ascorbic acid in treating humans with CMT type 1A. However, not all types of CMT are expected to respond to this treatment. Corrective surgical procedures can also be done to improve physical condition of patients.
32387	Just like any other rare disease, treatment for Mounier-Kuhn is aimed at managing the signs and symptoms. Doctors generally recommend quitting smoking, taking antibiotics, postural drainage to clear mucus from the lungs, and lung transplant.
32388	No cure for Mount's syndrome has been discovered yet and the best way to address the symptoms is to stay in motion so that the muscles will not become too tense. Other ways of subsiding the symptoms are having someone rube or massage the muscles, taking muscle relaxants, and doing activities to divert the patient's mind away from the symptoms.
32389	Treatment may includes radiation therapy and chemotherapy.
32390	Treatment for mouth ulcers is focused on managing symptoms and dealing with underlying causes. Self-care measures such as adequate oral hygiene and avoiding a spicy diet may also help. In addition, topical antihistamines, corticosteroids, antacids, and other applications may also be used to sooth painful ulcers.
32391	The most favored operations developed to treat the disease are the in-direct procedures encephaloduroarteriosynangiosis (EDAS), encephalomyosynangiosis (EMS), and multiple burr holes and the direct procedure STA-MCA. Although its efficacy related to hemorrhagic disease is still uncertain, direct superficial temporal artery (STA) to middle cerebral artery (MCA) bypass is considered the treatment of choice. Said operations carry the concept of a blood and oxygen starved brain reaching out to grasp and develop new and more efficient means of bringing food to the brain and bypassing the areas of blockage.
32392	Routine treatment with prophylactic antibiotics is generally not recommended because MPO deficiency patients have no increased incidence of infections. For patients with diabetes mellitus, caution must be exercised and if infection occurs, prompt and aggressive treatment using antimicrobials should be done. It is also preferred to avoid treatments that might increase the likelihood of developing fungal infection.
32393	Treatments to lessen pain during sexual intercourse are available but women. Uterine transplant is being planned by UK and Swedish doctors that would allow women to carry their own child but no transplant has been seen successful. Certain women who have ovaries can have genetic children though IVF with embryo transfer to a gestational carrier. Developing a functioning vagina to make way for satisfactory sexual intercourse may require vaginal dilators. In a McIndoe procedure, a skin graft is done and applied to form an artificial vagina. Dilators are still needed though after the procedure to prevent stenosis. A laparoscopic procedure called Vecchieti has been shown to result in a vagina that is comparable to a normal vagina.
32394	There is no known treatment to prevent urticarial attacks. To correct deafness, hearing aids may be used.
32395	A biopsy may be done if the doctor is not sure of the diagnosis and minor surgery may also be suggested to remove the lesion.
32396	Treatment includes the administration of Aspirin to prevent blood clots and infusion of gamma globulin which lessen the risk of having coronary artery abnormalities.
32397	Treating systemic conditions and improving a patient's quality of life are the goal of medical care related to the disorder since there really is no existing cure. Diet changes may aid individuals suffering from excessive mucus while removing the tonsils may improve breathing. Enzyme replacement therapies are currently being used and tested.
32398	Treatment for MPS III is generally supportive due to the varied symptoms. Some patients may require consultations with specialists in neurology, orthopedics, pediatrics, ophthalmology, and audiology. Patients may also be referred to medical geneticists for genetic diagnosis and counseling.
32399	Now, only soothing measures are available to treat Morquio syndrome patients. Physicians normally recommend cervical spine fusion to patients since all of those with the disorder have odontoid hypoplasia that can lead to atlanoaxial subluxation.
32400	Medical care for the disease includes enzyme replacement therapy with laronidase. It may improve pulmonary function and walking ability and reduction of excess carbohydrates stored in organs.
32401	Therapies that may replace the enzyme and help the boy make alpha-L-idurodinase and a bone marrow transplant are the available treatments for the disease. Other procedures may be conducted depending on the organs that are affected.
32402	Enzyme replacement is already possible for patients with such conditions. Permanent nerve damage can be prevented by early recognition and treatment of spinal cord compression.
32403	Treatment of the illness is very difficult due to its specific nature. Pallaiative treatment, bones marrow graft, and elaprase are the most commonly recommended ways to manage the illness.
32404	There is no cure for Hunter syndrome yet. Medical care is geared to relieve the symptoms. Respiratory care and monitoring is important. Specialists including geneticists are involved in caring for Hunter syndrome patients. Enzyme replacement is also an option to prevent the syndrome from getting worse.
32405	Now, only soothing measures are available to treat Morquio syndrome patients. Physicians normally recommend cervical spine fusion to patients since all of those with the disorder have odontoid hypoplasia that can lead to atlanoaxial subluxation.
32406	Since Maroteaux-Lamy is a genetic disease, it is difficult to cure. However, current approaches include genetic counseling for parents who are carriers of the disease.
32407	Corneal transplants and corrective surgery are the current options for patients since there really is no existing treatment for the disease itself.
32408	If mucormycosis is suspected, prompt amphotericin B therapy should be administered due to the rapid spread and mortality rate of the disease. Amphotericin B is commonly administered for a further 4-6 weeks after initial therapy begins to ensure eradication of the infection. Posaconazole has proved to be effective against mucormycosis, perhaps more so than amphotericin B, but has not yet replaced it as the standard of care.
32410	Treatments to lessen pain during sexual intercourse are available but women with this disorder can get pregnant. Uterine transplant is being planned by UK and Swedish doctors that would allow women to carry their own child but no transplant has been successful yet. Some women who have ovaries can have genetic children though IVF with embryo transfer to a gestational carrier. To develop a functioning vagina to make way for satisfactory sexual intercourse may require vaginal dilators. In a McIndoe procedure, a skin graft is performed and applied to form an artificial vagina. Dilators are still required though after the procedure to prevent stenosis. A laparoscopic procedure meanwhile called Vecchieti has been shown to result in a vagina that is comparable to a normal vagina.
32411	Damage caused by multi-infract dementia is irreversible; however, further progression of the disease can be prevented with medications to stop blood clotting, such as clopidogrel (Plavix), dipyridamole (Persantin), or aspirin. Cardiac irregularities can be dealt with using anticoagulants. The disease itself is untreatable, and the entirety of treatment is mostly focused on supportive care.
32412	For isolated PVCs with benign characteristics, no treatment is required. Continuous rehydration and restoring the balance of magnesium, calcium, and potassium within the body on the other hand are recommended for otherwise healthy people with PVC. The most effective treatment however is discarding the triggers.
32413	Studies show that MCS is simply a physical manifestation of a psychological disturbance, which might require patients to undergo psychotherapy and take antidepressants. Psychotherapy is said to have resulted in long-term improvements in MCS syndromes.
32414	Some patients may opt for a surgery to remove the cutaneous tumors. The larger ones called angiofibromas, involve a variety of methods for people with tuberous sclerosis. Said methods include shave excision, dermabrasion, and carbon dioxide laser.
32415	Surgery is performed to treat MEN2. Prostaglandin inhibitors are also utilized as a preoperative medical treatment in order to alleviate the diarrhea that may be associated with medullary thyroid cancer.
32416	HME currently does not have any cure. Deformities and other movement problems may be addressed through surgery, physical therapy, and pain management. HME patients undergoing several surgical procedures throughout their lifetime are normal in order to remove painful or deforming exostoses. Improving range of motion and correcting limb length discrepancies also require surgery.
32417	Treating multiple myeloma focuses on containing and suppressing the disease. However if the disease is completely asymptomatic treatment may be deferred. Aside from direct treatment of the plasma cell proliferation, routine administration of bisphosphonates is an option to prevent fractures and erythropoietin to treat anemia.
32418	MODS therapy is limited to supportive care such as safeguarding hemodynamics, and respiration. The principal target of therapies is maintaining adequate tissue. Admission to an Intensive care unit has also reduces infectious complications.
32419	Treatment includes psychotherapy like talk therapy or counseling or psychosocial therapy, creative art therapy, cognitive therapy and administration of antidepressants, anti-anxiety pills and tranquilizers.
32420	There is no specific and known treatment for multiple sclerosis though several therapies have been helpful to patients. Said therapies aim to bring back function after an attack. On the other hand, medications used in the management of MS have several adverse effects and many possible therapies are still under investigation. Some patients are also pursuing alternative treatments.
32421	MSA cannot be treated itself but the symptoms can be. Problems with walking or movement for example may seek the help of physical therapists, occupational therapists and others. Complex symptoms of MSA are often not familiar to less-specialized health care professionals, therefore, ongoing care from a neurologist specializing in "movement disorders" is recommended.
32422	Relieving the discomfort caused by the symptoms is the only way to address the disease since it has no specific treatment. Applying ice or heat intermittently to the affected area can help relieve pain. Acetaminophen or Tylenol may also be used as a medication. Studies showing an increased risk of Reye's syndrome led physicians to discourage the use of Aspirin among children. Gargling with saline solution, eating soft foods, and extra fluid intake may also help ease symptoms.
32423	People with Munchausen syndrome actively seeks treatment for the various symptoms he or she creates. However, they are often unwilling to seek treatment for the syndrome itself. Just like other factitious disorders, the syndrome primarily requires psychotherapy, which focuses on changing the thinking and behavior of the person.
32424	Currently, there is no specific treatment available to cure Murray Valley encephalitis or control the virus. Supportive care such as respiratory support may be recommended in severe cases.
32425	The pain and discomfort of muscle contraction headaches can be alleviated with the following self-care remedies: gentle neck exercises, hot showers, hot pack on the back of the neck, passive relaxation, and massages. Medications such as aspirin, acetaminophen, propoxyphene, codeine, antidepressants, MOA inhibitors, and barbiturate compounds may also be used. Other forms of treatment include: passive relation therapy; cervical collars; progressive relaxation therapy; relaxation training; counseling; cognitive restructuring; and physical therapy.
32426	Muscle cramps are usually reduced in intensity through stretching exercises and intake of lots of liquids. Recurrent cramps that disturb sleep may be treated with doctor-prescribed medication that relaxes the muscles.
32427	There are several treatments for muscle dysmorphia such as: Cosmetic surgery, Pharmacotherapy, Psychodynamic therapy, Behavioral therapy, Cognitive therapy (mostly cognitive restructuring), Cognitive-behavioral therapy
32428	Treatment of muscle sprain will depend on the extent of the injury. For moderate injuries, an over the counter medications like ibuprofen and an ice pack are enough to minimize the swelling and pain. However, for severe injuries, a braise or splint is needed in order to immobilize the area affected. A surgery may be considered in extreme cases.
32429	The disease has no known cure and inactivity can worsen a patient's condition. Orthopedic instruments and physical therapy may be helpful though. The latter can prevent contractures and orthoses. Corrective orthopedic surgery may be considered necessary to improve the quality of life in some cases. For Emery-Dreifuss muscular dystrophy and myotonic muscular dystrophy, a pacemaker may be required.
32430	Along with other forms of muscular dystrophy, DMD has no known cure although recent stem-cell research is showing promising vectors that may replace damaged muscle tissue. Controlling the symptoms to maximize the quality of life is the aim of treatments. The use of corcosteroids may defer the severity of symptoms. Mild, non-jarring physical activity, physical therapy, orthopedic appliances, and appropriate respiratory support may be recommended to patients.
32431	To improve a patient's quality of life, scapular fusion or the surgical fusion of the scapula to the thorax and scapular bracing or the installation of a scapular brace to stabilize the shoulders are the common procedures to address the condition.
32432	Though many CFS patients do not recover from even with medical intervention, there are management strategies that can reduce the consequences of having the disorder. In a systematic review, CFS patients are less susceptible to placebo effects than predicted and have low placebo response to patients with other diseases.
32433	Medication or surgery is the known treatments for myasthenia gravis. Cholinesterase inhibitors are medications that directly improve muscle function. Immunosuppressant drugs can also reduce the autoimmune process. Surgical methods such as thymectomy are performed to treat MG. Emergency treatments include plasmapheresis or IVIG, this may be done as a temporary measure to eliminate antibodies from the blood circulation.
32434	Medication and/or surgery are the known treatments for myasthenia gravis congenital. Cholinesterase inhibitors are tested medications that directly improve muscle function. Immunosuppressant drugs can also lessen the autoimmune process. Surgical methods such as thymectomy are carried out to treat MG. Emergency treatments include plasmapheresis or IVIG. Any of these may be done as a temporary measure to eliminate antibodies from the blood circulation.
32435	Treatments include surgical procedures, antifungal medications and amputation. No definite cure or any vaccine is available do date.
32436	Treatment for mycobacterium avium complex usually involves a combination of anti-tuberculosis antibiotics, including: Ciprofloxacin, Rifabutin, Ethambutol, Clarithromycin, Rifampicin, Azithromycin, Amikacin, and Streptomycin.
32437	Mycoplasma pneumoniae infections are treated with antibiotics. In most cases, the infection resolves on its own within a week or a few weeks.
32438	Treatment usually involves drug therapy, particularly antibiotics, wherein macrolide antibiotics, second generation quinolones and doxycycline are the ideal drugs of choice.
32439	Recommended treatments include sun exposure, UV light, topical steroids as well as topical and systemic chemotherapies, local superficial radiotherapy, total skin electron beam radiation, and biological therapies. Organic honey applied to affected and inflamed skin had been proven effective also. Combination treatments are practiced.
32440	Recommended treatments include sun exposure, UV light, topical steroids as well as topical and systemic chemotherapies, local superficial radiotherapy, total skin electron beam radiation, and biological therapies. Organic honey applied to affected and inflamed skin had been proven effective also. Combination treatments are practiced.
32441	Treatment for myelitis usually includes administration of intravenous steroids. Patients who do not respond to intravenous steroids can undergo plasma exchange therapy. For chronic pain, pain medications are usually prescribed. Physical and Occupational Therapy are also advised to help patients recover and achieve maximum independence. Strength and coordination are expected to improve with aggressive and regular therapy.
32442	Therapy is recommended to improve the quality of life, decrease disease progression and improve chances of survival. Chemotherapy had also been found effective in decreasing the need for blood transfusions and retard disease progression. Stem cell transplant among patients below 40 years old and some severely affected patients offers good prognosis and chances for curative therapy.
32443	Therapy is recommended to improve the quality of life, decrease disease progression and improve chances of survival. Chemotherapy had also been found effective in decreasing the need for blood transfusions and retard disease progression. Stem cell transplant among patients below 40 years old and some severely affected patients offers good prognosis and chances for curative therapy.
32444	To date, allogeneic hematopoietic cell transplantation or allo-HCT is the only modality for treatment which promises potential for cure. The other modalities that also promise success in terms of treatment are androgens, chemotherapy anagrelide, hydroxyurea, splenectomy, radiation therapy to the spleen, and thalidomide
32445	Treatment for multiple myeloma is focused on disease containment and suppression. If the disease is completely asymptomatic like for example there is a paraprotein and an abnormal bone marrow population but no end-organ damage), treatment may be deferred.
32446	Treatment for Myelomeningocele may require surgery in order to minimize infection associated with the condition.
32447	From a study that was conducted, HLA identical leukocytes transfusion which came from a healthy family member restored the impaired cellular immunity to normal.
32448	When an infection is on its way, the larvae must first be eliminated by applying pressure in the area of the lesion. Typically, forceps should be used. The wound must then be cleansed and disinfected. Preventive measures and control are vital to eliminate risks of reinfection. Livestock may be treated by using slow release boluses that contains ivermectin. This can provide protection for a long period of time against development of larvae. Drenching or dipping the sheep in insecticide may be done in order to avoid growth of the larvae.
32449	Sometime, relief from the symptoms associated with MADD can be achieved by oral administration of ribose with a dosage of approximately 10g/100 lbs or 0.2 g/kg body weight per day.
32450	Treatment includes oral administration of aspirin, thrombolytics, and other blood thinning medications such as heparin to make the blood less sticky. Pain relievers are also advised to ease pain and discomfort. Surgical Procedures like coronary angioplasty and stenting, coronary catheterization or angiogram and coronary artery bypass surgery may also be used to treat Myocardial Infarction.
32451	For bacterial infections, antibiotics are the treatment of choice. The specific type of antibiotics used depends on the type of pathogen and its sensitivity to antibiotics. Viral infections, on the other hand, cannot be managed with direct treatment. Therefore, symptomatic treatment is the only form of medical intervention for viral myocarditis. Additionally, ACE inhibitor therapy may also help in treatment.
32452	Treatment for myoclonus focuses on symptom reduction. The complex characteristics of myoclonus may require the administering of a combination of several drugs for an effective healing process. Clonazepam, a type of benzodiazepine, is usually the drug of choice. Most drugs prescribed for myoclonus - including barbiturates, primidone, and phenytoin - are also used in epilepsy treatment. Barbiturares has a tranquelizing effect on the nervous system, whereas primidone and phenytoin work as antiepileptic medication. An alternative treatment is sodium valproate, which can be used alone or with clonazepam.
32453	There are no specific drugs designed to treat myoclonus epilepsy, but myoclonic signs and symptoms may be alleviated with such medications as: clonazepam; divalproex; primidone; levetiracetam; other anticonvulsants; as well as certain immunosuppressants.
32454	Treatment includes physical therapy, oral administration of medications to alleviate the pain and swelling such as the nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, and trigger point injections.
32455	Patients with myoglobinuria must be admitted for management of complications and IV hydration. A brisk diuresis may be induced to prevent myoglobin influx in the urine. Saline is administered to prevent acute renal failure. Sodium bicarbonate and fluids are administered to raise the pH of the urine to 6.5. To avoid dialysis, diuresis must be safely facilitated by nephrologists. If dialysis is required, a reliable nephrologist should provide immediate consultation. Surgical intervention becomes necessary if the extent of muscle damage is severe. To treat compartment compression syndrome, fasciotomy may be used.
32456	Treatment of Myomas or uterine fibroids includes administration of Gonadotropin releasing hormone or the Gn-RH to trigger menstrual cycle, danazol and oral contraceptives or progestins. Hysterectomy or the uterus removal and myomectomy may also be advised.
32457	Severe myopathies often require emergency medical care. Patients suffering from rhabdomyolysis need immediate critical care and must be admitted to treat life-threatening complications. Patients suffering from hypokalemic periodic paralysis usually require intravenous or oral potassium replacement. For patients with hyperkalemic periodic paralysis, however, attacks are often so brief that no therapy is necessary.
32458	At present, myotubular or centronuclear myopathies have no cure. Specialists often focus on maximizing functional abilities and minimizing medical complications.
32459	At present, there is no known cure for myotubular or centronuclear myopathies. Typically, therapy is geared towards minimizing complications, alleviating symptoms, and maximizing the functional abilities of the patient. Professionals specializing in physical therapy may be involved. Lung infections can be particularly fatal to patients suffering from myopathy because they do not have the muscle strength to clear secretions through coughing. Because of this, medical care is focused on avoiding pulmonary complications. Medical tools to help patients cough are useful in clearing up the airways, avoiding mucous plugs, and subsequently avoiding the need for tracheostomy tubes. Scoliosis must also be monitored at all times, since the weakening of the trunk muscles can affect the spinal alignment, eventually leading to respiratory damage. Several patients suffering from myopathy may have to undergo surgical treatment for scoliosis.
32460	Myopia is commonly corrected with the use of corrective lenses such as prescription glasses and/or contact lenses. The corrective lenses may be concave or have a negative optical power, thus compensating for the excessive positive diopters of the eye. Less frequently, pinhole glasses, which reduce the blur cycle on the retina, are used by those with low level myopia. Recently, Refractive surgery, such as LASIK, has become a very popular means of correcting this condition.
32461	Severe myopia can be permanently corrected with Lasik eye surgery. This procedure takes between five to ten minutes. Mild anesthetics are administered to prevent pain, while eye drops are applied to numb the eye. Once the eye is completely numb, a little tool called a microkeratome is attached to a suction ring placed on the eye. This device has a tiny blade which cuts a thin flap on the corneal surface. The flap is then folded back, exposing the stroma or the layer of tissue beneath. This stroma is searched for debris and then cleaned or dried. Next, the surgeon will mend the damaged corneal tissue with the aid of laser. As a final step, the flap is returned to its original position. An eye patch is typically recommended while the eye is healing. This surgery has been said to be painless, but several patients have complained of various discomforts.
32462	Treatment strategies vary according to the specific type of myositis. For idiopathic inflammatory myopathies, corticosteroid drug and intravenous immunoglobulin are usually the modes of choice. Infectious myositis may be treated with bed rest and increased fluid intake, as well as administering various nonprescription drugs for fever and muscle aches. In cases of benign acute myositis, pain medication is usually prescribed. For myositis ossificans that persists over time, surgery may be recommended to remove the lump. Drug-induced myositis, on the other hand, is treated by halting any medication that contributed to the condition. Corticosteroids may also help in recovery.
32463	Treatment strategies for myositis ossificans must initially be conservative, because patients' ossifications will at times be spontaneously reabsorbed, whereas others will demonstrate little if any symptoms. Initial management may consist of applying ice and bandages to relieve the initial swelling. Stretching of the affected joints, sustaining muscle control of the injured area, and modifying activity to help restore function are also ideal. Although these basic remedies can be done at home, it is strongly recommended that the patients consult a physical therapist during recovery. For thigh contusions, crutches may be necessary. Neoprene or other bandage materials may also reduce some symptoms. In addition, the use of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory medications is essential in avoiding hematoma (clot). In rare cases, surgical intervention may become a necessity, with the abnormal tissue requiring debridement. Access to this treatment, however, is currently limited.
32464	There is scarce evidence that any type of treatment arrests the progress of the myositis ossificans progressiva condition. Treatments of choice include imposing a Vitamin D and calcium rich diet, the avoidance of direct sunlight, and administering of corticosteroids. Additionally, beryllium, vitamins B and E and penicillamine may also be used in treating patients. Of late, calcification-blocking drugs have been administered without any proven benefits. On the surgical side, resection of the ossified sites is usually unsuccessful, with ossification in the same areas often recurring. On occasion, however, good outcomes have been reported post-surgery.
32465	Myotonic dystrophy has no direct treatment, physical and occupational therapies are recommended to make the muscles work.
32466	Currently, Myotubular Myopathy has no known cure, and treatment is mostly focused on managing symptoms and decreasing complications.
32467	Treatment for myxedema patients can prove difficult. Clinical studies espouse the use of systemic or intralesional glucocorticoids, topical glucocorticoids under occlusion, or high dosage of IV immunoglobulin. More often, myxedema therapy is secondary to the treatment of the original underlying hyperthyroidism or hypothyroidism.
32468	Referral to a hand or dermatologic surgeon may be required for patients who fail conservative treatments, considering the some myxoid cysts will disappear spontaneously and recurrent rates are high. A number of common treatment options are available such as corticosteroid tape (flurandrenolide), surgical excision, repeated puncture, steroid injections (triamcinolone) and cryosurgery (freezing).
32471	Most cases of naegleria infections end in death. However, if the infection is detected early, it may be possible to survive it. The preferred treatment for naegleria is an antifungal medication called Amphotericin B, which is usually introduced intravenously into the space around the spinal cord to kill the invading organism.
32472	Treatment of the Naegleria Infection includes oral administration of amphotericin B which is an anti-fungal medication that is commonly injected either into the vein of the patient or into the space around the spinal cord to kill the amoebas causing the disease.
32473	Most nails removed through partial or whole nail avulsion typically grow back without any specific treatment.
32474	Treatment of Nail fungus includes administration of over the counter fungal creams and ointments for the nails and administration of oral medications such as the Itraconazole, Fluoconazole and Terbinafine.
32475	For nail-patella syndrome affected individuals, there is often no need for treatment. But if required, therapy is usually dependent on the patient's symptoms. When severe kidney complications develop, dialysis or even a kidney transplant may be necessitated.
32476	Proper hygiene is the best way to prevent nappy rash. Topical creams are also available to stop the rashes.
32477	Types of therapy that may be helpful for narcissistic personality disorder include: Cognitive behavioral therapy helps identify unhealthy. Family therapy typically brings the whole family along in therapy sessions. Group therapy which you meet with a group of people with similar conditions, negative beliefs and behaviors and replace them with healthy, positive ones.
32478	The drowsiness of afflicted patients may be treated by stimulants. Examples of these are racemic amphetamine, dextroamphetamine, methylphenidate, and methamphetamine or modafinil. Some other forms of medications, such as selegiline and codeine, may also be used. Atomoxetine, which is not a stimulant, and Norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor (NRI) may also be recommended.
32479	Treatment of Narcolepsy-cataplexy is specifically designed individually depending on the symptoms and therapeutic response of the patient. The most common medication to relieve drowsiness is amphetamine-like stimulants to encourage energy and alertness.
32480	Treatment includes administration of corticosteroid nasal spray like the fluticasone, triamcinolone, flunisolide or mometasome and those oral corticosteroid, medicines for allergies like antihistamine and anti-fungal medications. In some cases surgery like polypectomy and endoscopic sinus surgery may be advised to treat nasal polyps.
32481	Radiation therapy is an effective treatment for the cancer. Chemotherapy is sometimes used but they both give off side effects such as falling hair and weakness.
32482	The most effective treatment for nasopharyngeal carcinoma is through radiation therapy. Other treatment procedures include chemotherapy and in some cases, surgery.
32483	Treatment of Naxos Disease is achieved through antiarrhythmic drugs and heart transplants.
32484	Treatment includes wearing corrective lenses such as eye glasses and contact lenses, undergoing to refractive surgery which may includes Laser-assisted in situ keratomileusis or LASIK , Laser assisted Supepithelial Keratomileusis or LASEK and Photorefractive Keratectomy or PRK and undergoing Anterior Chamber Intraocular or IOL implant.
32485	The standard modes of treatment for most types of neck cancers are surgical resection and radiation therapy. Other treatment strategies depend largely on the type of neck cancer involved.
32486	Treatment includes administration of over the counter pain relievers, resting and stretching including neck exercise. Undergoing therapy is also advised while surgery may also be advised in order to relieve the nerve root or spinal cord compression.
32487	Initial treatment through antibiotics administered intravenously including penicillin, clindamycin and vancomycin. After diagnosis is confirmed surgical exploration is compulsory, wherein removal of dead tissues is performed (debridement). For massive wounds and tissue destruction, hyperbaric oxygen treatment can also be an adjunctive therapy.
32488	Early intervention is the best treatment for diseases brought about by Neisseria Meningitidis; this is the reason why Emergency hospitalization is highly necessary. Drug administration is usually achieved through antibitiotics, which may include: * Penicillin * Ampicillin * Oily Chloramphenicol * Chloramphenicol * Ceftriaxone Usually treatment is applied based on the symptoms that appear.
32491	There is currently no cure for neonatal ALD, and treatment is mostly symptomatic and supportive. Physical therapy and psychological counseling are usually integrated in the overall approach. In some cases, special education of affected children may be recommended. To date, no medications exist that can reverse the demyelination of nerve and brain cells.
32492	Liver transplant is still the most effective treatment for Neonatal hemochromatosis. There are reports that an antioxidant chelation cocktail is another successful alternative but there is still no valid basis for that at present. A new treatment is being introduced and has gained a lot of positive results; high dose of immunoglobulin are given to pregnant mothers who has a previous history of giving birth to an infant with Neonatal Hemochromatosis.
32493	The goal of treatment for Neonatal Hepatitis is to prevent further liver damage and prevent or treat complications. In some cases, a blood or fresh plasma transfusion may be necessary. Portacaval anastomosis is another alternative with the aim to relieve portal hypertension. There is still no effective treatment for neonatal hepatitis except for immediate liver transplantation. There are also supportive methods including supplemental vitamins like Vitamins A, B complex, D and K to make up for the inability of the liver to gather them. The most essential measure is to rest, have moderate exercise and prevent exposure to infections.
32494	There is no treatment that can wipe out any of the herpes viruses present in the body. Treatments can only offer temporary relief or alleviate the symptoms of the disease; but in reality there is no cure for this. There are medications available to reduce itching like topical anesthetics such as lidocaine or tetracaine. There are also medications that can reduce fever and pain during eruptions.
32495	Neonatal jaundice in infants is treated with phototherapy, a blue colored light that breaks down and consequently reduces excessive amounts of bilirubin in the blood. With phototherapy, isomerization occurs, transforming the bilirubin in the infant's blood into water soluble isomers that can be excreted. In addition, an increase in feeding frequency helps move the excess bilirubin through the infant's metabolic system.
32496	Treatment for neonatal lupus patients with cardiac rhythm abnormalities depend on the underlying congenital heart defect. Skin lesions may be treated with mild steroids and laser treatment for residual telangiectasia. In severe cases of neonatal lupus, a pacemaker may be surgically implanted into the infant's heart and structural abnormalities may be repaired via surgery.
32497	Neonatal myasthenia can be treated with medications or blood transfusions to remove the antibodies that cause myasthenia symptoms.
32498	Neonatal ophthalmitis is treated with appropriate antibiotics. They are fairly treatable and resolve within several days from birth.
32499	In high-risk cases, prompt attention and urgent emergency care must be given by a neonatal resuscitation team. Artificial surfactant may be delivered into the infant's lungs, along with warm, moist oxygen. Breathing machines and continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP) are also vital in treatment. Other measures used in therapy include: extracorporeal membrane oxygenation (ECMO) and inhaled nitric oxide to improve oxygen levels.
32500	Prevention of neonatal tetanus is crucial. Females of child-bearing age must be immunized with tetanus-toxoid (TT) -containing vaccines to protect both mother and fetus from this potentially fatal disease. In addition, hygienic practices during delivery are particularly important. When neonatal tetanus does occur, treatment usually involves intravenous Iv sedative drugs along with an oral regime that includes: naso-gastric tube after sedation; tetanus antiserum; procaine penicillin; and kanamycin.
32501	Newborns with neonatal jaundice are treated with phototherapy; treatment by using colored light for the purpose of breaking down bilirubin.
32503	Treatments for Neuroblastoma includes undergoing surgery to remove the tumor, and just like any other type of cancer, treatment may include undergoing chemotherapy, radiation and including undergoing bone marrow stem cell transplant.
32504	The effective treatment approach for Nephrocalcinosis is to immediately correct the calcium imbalance; after which maintenance therapy is greatly necessary to correct the underlying cause of Nephrocalcinosis.
32505	Nephrogenic diabetes Insipidus can be improved through administration of the diuretic hydrochlorothiazide, which is diuretic drug effective in inhibiting the kidney's ability to retain fluid. In addition to this generic drug, amiloride, which is a potassium sparring diuretic is combined for the purpose of preventing the occurrence of hypokalemia. Indomethacin can also improve the condition of persons with Diabetes Insipidus. Treatment using any of these medications should be combined with adequate rehydration because patients with Diabetes Insipidus are prone to dehydration.
32506	Treatment for nephropathy depends on the underlying cause or condition.
32508	Treatment for Nephrotic Syndrome includes supportive treatment, treatment of the specific underlying cause and dietary recommendations. Supportive treatment includes monitoring and maintaining amount of body fluid, monitoring function of the kidney, preventing complications, and treating any complication that starts to develop. Treating the underlying cause is achieved through administration of medications for the cause of the present condition. Dietary recommendations involve informing the patient what is and what is not allowed for food and fluid intake.
32509	Treatment of nerve cancer may include surgery, radiation therapy, and chemotherapy.
32510	Nervous breakdown is not a clinical term, and therefore, no specific treatment is necessary. However, mental disorders that are mistaken for nervous breakdown can be treated with a combination of behavior-altering medications and psychotherapy.
32511	Treatment includes chemotherapy, radiation, surgery and medications such as corticosteroid. It may also include undergoing to the plasma exchange process or the Plasmapherises procedure which aims to remove the plasma in the blood cells; intravenous Immunoglobulin or IVIg.
32512	Some neural tube defects require no treatment; however prompt neurosurgical repair and proper treatment can help improve the condition of a patient. Though, most neural tube defects cause critical and permanent disability.
32513	Several types of neuralgia can be treated with anticonvulsant drugs (e.g. carbamazepine, or phenytoin) or painkillers. In some cases, surgery may be required to cut or decompress the affected nerve. In neuralgia caused by a herpes infection, treatment may consist of: antidepressants, anticonvulsants, capsaicin (Xostrix), topical painkillers, desensitization, TENS or transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation; or, as a last resort, dorsal root zone (DREZ) surgery.
32514	Treatment for Postherpetic neuralgia includes administration of antidepressant inasmuch as it affects the chemicals in the brain; use of Lidocaine Skin Patches and oral administration of drugs that stop the reuptake of nrepinephrine and serotonin; medications to alleviate pain may also be used. In some cases Spinal Cord or Peripheral nerve stimulation are also used to treat the Postherpetic neuralgia.
32516	Beard along with A.D. Rockwell promoted electrotherapy and other experimental treatments for neurasthenia but failed to gain merits for their claim.
32517	Since neuritis can be triggered by high levels of toxins in bodily fluids, an important step in treatment is to impose drastic dietary and lifestyle changes. Self-care remedies may include incorporating the following in one's daily diet: soya bean milk, barley brew, carrots, spinach, orange flowers, and vitamin B.
32518	Symptomatic and supportive treatment is essential for Neuroacanthocytosis. Symptomatic treatment means administering proper medication to relieve the symptoms present in the individual suffering from Neuroacanthocytosis. For example, botulinum toxin injections are known to relax muscles and minimize unintentional movement. There are also some instances when speech and physical therapy are highly beneficial.
32519	Localized lesions are generally curable. Multimodal therapies are available including chemotherapy, surgery, radiation therapy, stem cell transplant, and immunotherapy; however, long-term survival for young children is poor even with the assistance of the therapies.
32520	Neurocysticercosis may be treated with anti-parasitic drugs and anti-inflammatory drugs. In some cases, surgery to relieve the pressure on the brain may be necessary.
32521	Treatment includes administration of prescription medications such as oral corticosteroid, antidepressants and anti-anxiety medications and application of antibiotic lotions.
32522	Treatment includes surgery where the physician removes the tumor , undergoing radiation therapy, high energy X-rays at cancer cells, and chemotherapy
32523	Surgery is the only effective treatment to cure neuroendocrine cancer. There are also therapies that can assist in the healing improvement of patients with neuroendocrine cancer: chemotherapy, hormone delivered radiotherapy, hepatic artery-delivered therapies.
32525	The most recommended treatment for Neurofibroma is surgical resection of the tumor; however complete removal is not attained for tumors located in delicate positions like the optic nerve. In cases like this, debulking or incomplete excision is proven to be helpful followed by chemotherapy or radiation therapy.
32526	Neurofibromatosis has no particular effective treatment. The following management therapy can help improve the condition, but not totally cure the condition of the person suffering from Neurofibromatosis: * Surgical excision of the tumor * Radiation therapy or the use of radiation rays to destroy cancer cells and minimize the size of the tumor until complete shrinking is achieved. * Chemotherapy or treatment with drugs for the purpose of killing cancer cells.
32527	The most effective treatment is neurosurgical removal of the tumor; Chemotherapy and radiation therapy may also be necessary for the treatment of Neurofibromatosis type 2, however early detection and diagnosis can be helpful in providing immediate therapy for patients with this disorder. Surgical treatment of the eye lesion is also effective in case there is occurrence concerning the eye.
32528	qThe treatment of this disorder is depend on the patient's age, health status, medical history, severity of symptoms, cause of the disorder, kind of voiding dysfuntion, the tolerance of medication, procedure or therapies. The interventions that is done for the patient with Neurogenic Bladder are catheterization (to empty the bladder at regular intervals) ,prophylactic antibiotic therapy (to reduce the incidence of infection) , placement of an artificial sphincter - to prevent urinary incontinence and it also helps empty the bladder.
32529	The treatment of this disorder is depend on the patient's age, health status, medical history, severity of symptoms, cause of the disorder, kind of voiding dysfuntion, the tolerance of medication, procedure or therapies. The interventions that is done for the patient with Neurogenic Bladder are catheterization (to empty the bladder at regular intervals) ,prophylactic antibiotic therapy (to reduce the incidence of infection) , placement of an artificial sphincter - to prevent urinary incontinence and it also helps empty the bladder.
32530	Supportive treatment is necessary for this disorder; initial action for the purpose of treatment is to discontinue administering the antipsychotic drug to the patient. Intensive care is needed in many cases and supportive care should be maintained at the minimum level. There may be necessary treatments in order to oppose the specific effects of the disorder including circulatory support and electroconvulsive therapy in case medication fails to improve the condition.
32531	Treatment for neuroma focuses on stopping the tumor from growing or altogether removing the tumor. Brain surgery to remove the neuroma is a preferred option, with consideration given to the extent of nerve damage that may result. A range of radiation therapies may also be recommended, including gamma-knife radiosurgery, a procedure that allows a doctor to deliver radiation directly to the tumor without an incision. In most cases, this is a better option than brain surgery, which can inadvertently cause damage to surrounding tissue.
32532	Treatment includes administration of over the counter medications to relieve the pain. It may also include corticosteroid injections such as steroids to reduce inflammation of the area. Resting and changing shoes to a more comfortable one is also advisable. In some cases, surgical removal may also be used to treat the condition.
32533	Neuropathic pain may be treated with anticonvulsants, antidepressants, non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, or, in severe cases, stronger painkillers such as those containing morphine. If neuropathic pain is triggered by an underlying cause, treatment should be focused on curing or managing the underlying disorder first. Invasive or implantable device therapies may also be used to manage unbearable pain. In some cases, electrical stimulation of the affected nerves may significantly reduce symptoms.
32534	Most causes of neuropathy improve after appropriate treatment, especially if the underlying condition is first resolved. Medications used to reduce painful symptoms of neuropathy include: pain relievers; anti-seizure medications; lidocaine patch; and antidepressants.
32535	Treatment depends on the type of neurosis present. But generally, this includes a multi-disciplinary approach involving behavior-altering medications, psychotherapy, and more specific counseling.q
32536	Other than symptomatic and supportive care, there are no treatment methods that specifically deal with neurotoxic shellfish poisioning.
32538	There is no ideal therapy for neutropenia, but recombinant G-CSF (granulocyte-colony stimulating factor) can be effective in chemotherapy patients, in patients with congenital forms of neutropenia including severe congenital neutropenia, autosomal recessive Kostmann's syndrome, cyclic neutropenia, and myelokathexis.
32539	Though moles are usually harmless, people who wants to take off their unwanted moles may seek their dermatologist for mole removal. For cases where the mole is cancerous, excisional surgery, shave excision and punch biopsy may be used to removed the cancerous moles.
32540	Treatment is multi-disciplinary which mainly consists of physical and emotional support. Minimal exposure to light is highly recommended. Radiation therapy is contraindicated as well for cancer treatment.
32541	Most moles or nevi do not require treatment. However, if a nevus has been found to be cancerous, it may have to be entirely surgically removed. Some individuals may also opt to have their nevi removed for cosmetic reasons through: shave excision; punch biopsy; or excisional surgery.
32543	Treatment for Nezelof's syndrome is more focused on prevention. A person who is affected with this condition should be protected against exposure to infections.
32545	Nicholas-favre disease can be treated with antibiotic therapies such as tetracycline and doxicycline.
32546	There is actually no cure for nickel allergy. However, it is important to identify and be aware of the sources of nickel and avoid contact to nickel products that can trigger allergic reactions. Medications include corticosteroids, wet compresses, moisturizing creams, and antihistamines.
32547	Treatment includes administration of medications such as antidepressants and Varenicline. Nicotine Replacement Therapy which may be be found in nicotine replacement products commonly sold over the counter such as Nicotine Patch, nicotine gum, nicotine lozenge and also those available by prescription such as the nicotine nasal spray which is directly sprayed in to the nostrils, and nicotine inhaler. Counseling and joining support groups are also helpful in treating nicotine dependence.
32552	The specific treatment for night blindness varies according to its cause. In some cases, the condition can be simply remedied with new prescription eyeglasses or glaucoma medications. In other cases, it may involve surgical intervention, such as in the case of cataracts where surgical removal is almost invariably necessary.
32553	Treatment can be done based on the underlying cause of night sweats.
32554	In several cases, a child who has a night terror only needs comfort and reassurance. Psychotherapy or counseling can be appropriate in some cases. Benzodiazepine medications such as diazepam used at bedtime will often reduce night terrors; but, medication is not usually recommended to treat this disorder.
32555	Treatment includes careful monitoring of infections, Virus Screening (Epstein-Barr virus, cytomegalovirus etc.) is recommended at least once a year or whenever an infection is being suspected. Some patients may require intravenous immunoglobulin. Antibiotic prophylaxis should be administrated to children with infections of the urinary tract and respiratory system secondary to congenital malformations. Recent studies described the use of Bone Marrow Transplant for NBS patients. Due to patients' sensitivity to radiation, radiation therapy is strictly not recommended.
32556	An ACE inhibitor combined with the drug prednisone is used to reduce blood pressure and keep the proteins from leaking. This medication also produces extra amounts of cholesterol to sustain the lost proteins. The blood serum is also monitored to monitor immunoglobulin problems.
32557	Six months of treatment is important. Combination drug therapy (sulfonamide, ceftriaxone and amikacin) shows positive results. Bed rest is required for severe cases and surgery to remove necrotic tissue and drainage of abscesses.
32558	Patients with nocturia are usually advised to reduce fluid or water intake before bedtime. Other treatment options for nocturia include: taking diuretic medicines in the morning; drinking normal liquid intake but earlier in the day; as well as avoiding drinking late at night, particularly diuretics such as beer, coffee, or tea.
32559	Treatment ranges from behavioral-based options such as bedwetting alarms, to medication such as hormone replacement. For several patients, the treatment is aimed at protecting or improving self-esteem. Treatment guidelines recommend that the physician counsel the parents, warning regarding psychological damage caused by pressure, shaming, or punishment for condition child cannot control.
32560	Treatment of Thyroid Nodules includes Thyroid Hormone Suppression Therapy, use of radioactive iodine and alcohol ablation. In some cases treatment may also include surgery or removal of the malignant nodules.
32562	Treatment for this condition involves surgical procedures. Plastic surgery needs to be performed in order to restore the facial appearance of children.
32563	Treatment varies for each category. For instance, treatment for indolent or low-grade lymphoma may involve a certain period of observation to initiate the treatment. Treatment procedures for aggressive or highly aggressive non-Hodgkin lymphoma usually involve chemotherapy with or without concomitant radiation therapy.
32565	Common treatments include chemotherapy, radiation therapy, drug therapy and possible surgery.
32566	Non-specific urethritis may be treated with a combination of antibiotics, tetracycline, doxycycline, and erythromycin. In most cases, the patient's sexual partner will also require treatment.
32567	Treatment includes exercise that focus more on loosing weight, diabetes and cholesterol control and avoidance of toxic substances such as alcohol.
32568	There are no particular therapies for NASH though doctors recommend patients to loss weight, follow a healthy and balanced diet, physical activity should be increased, reduce alcohol intake and avoid unnecessary medications.
32569	Treatment include administration of over the counter medications and saline solutions, oral decongestant, the use of saline nasal, corticosteroid nasal sprays and antihistamine nasal sprays.
32570	Treatment includes placing ice packs and compression to the penis to lessen the swelling of the penis. In some cases intracavernous injections and aspiration including surgery especially where the penile artery is ruptured already.
32571	Treatment of Celiac Disease or Nontropical Sprue has no direct cure but treatment focus more on the symptoms as they manifests. Change and preferring a gluten-free diet is also advised inorder to lessen or minimize the inflammation of the small intestine.
32572	Treatment includes administration of antacids which neutralizes acid in the stomach, acid blockers such as cimetidine and acid suppressors and antibiotic treatments for possible infections.
32574	Treatment for NPH is done by surgical draining of the fluids in the brain.
32575	There is no treatment particularly made for the norovirus infection but treatment focus more on the cure for the effects of the infections such as replacement of fluids and electrolytes due to diarrhea.
32577	A foreign body can usually be removed easily and safely from the nose by blowing the nose or through careful removal of the object by a doctor. Urgent removal of the nasal foreign body is rarely needed. Frequently, there is adequate time to assemble the tools necessary to safely remove the object and perhaps provide anesthesia or sedation to minimize pain or discomfort during removal. Larger forms of nasal foreign body may require: hooked probe or forceps; balloon catheters; suction catheter; cyanoacrylate glue; or positive pressure ventilation.
32578	Treatment for the disease involves nasal decongestants that relax the nasal membranes and reduce the swelling. Antihistamines are also effective to treat the inflammation.
32579	The first line of treatment for nosebleeds entails pinching the patient's nostrils together, asking him/her to sit forward (often with the trunk parallel to the floor), and then waiting for 5-10 minutes for the bleeding to subside. This method is usually effective in stopping mild nosebleeds. When occurring in small children, signs of nasal foreign bodies may be examined and removed. Severe nosebleeds that flow down the throat will require emergency intervention and almost invariably need nasal packing to stop the bleeding.
32580	There is no exact cure for the lesions as of today. Topical creams and cortisone injections can only reduce the swelling. The lesions could have healed on their own over time, but new ones may appear after a while.
32581	Administration of drenaline through injection or inhalation is an effective treatment. However, the person administering it should be properly trained because the treatment could be dangerous when incorrectly used.
32583	Treatment includes psychotherapy such as psychodynamics, cognitive behavior therapy and group therapy; oral administration of medications such as antidepressants, anti-androgens and anti anxiety medications.
32584	Clinical trials of a surgery to treat nystagmus (known as tenotomy) concluded in 2001. Tenotomy is being processed regularly at the University of Pittsburgh Children's Hospital and by a handful of surgeons around the world. The surgery developed by Louis F.Dell'Osso Ph.D aims to reduce the eye shaking (oscillations) that in turn tends to improve visual acuity.
32585	Obese patients are presented with various approaches to treat their condition. Depending on an individual's physician, drugs may be prescribed supplemented by weight loss surgery, dietary changes, or exercise programs may be suggested where appropriate. Obese patients must make changes to their lifestyle in order to keep off excess weight. Such changes may include changing your eating habits.
32586	Treatment is done by maintaining proper diet and exercise. Parents can engage their children into sports to burn off excess calories. Vegetable and fiber-rich foods are also recommended.
32587	At present, OCD cannot be cured, but options for successful treatment are available. OCD patients are first treated with behavioral therapy, cognitive therapy, medications, or any of their combination. Some aspects of their disorder may be managed by psychodynamic psychotherapy, but studies have not yet ascertained its effectiveness.
32588	Treatment is available through reconstructive surgery. This surgery for uncomplicated cases has a 90% success rate, and success rates for more complicated cases are estimated to be 60% successful. Some women are not considered for this surgery, but can seek out alternative treatment called a urostomy and a bag for the collection of urine is worn on a daily basis.
32589	Obstipation may be alleviated with self-care measures such as eating a high fiber diet and increasing fluid intake. However, such remedies are often temporary, and more aggressive treatment in the form of laxatives is often necessary. Some of the most common laxatives used are: lactulose, lubricants, bulking agents, osmotic laxatives, irritant laxatives, and prokinetics.
32590	Individuals with obstructive sleep apnea is treated in various ways depending on their medical history, the specific cause of the obstruction, and the severity of the disorder. Children suffering from obstructive sleep apnea usually have chronically enlarged tonsils and adenoids. Thus, tonsillectomy and adenoidectomy is performed, which can cure the disorder and allow the children to develop and grow normally. Treatment for adults vary. Some treatments may focus on lifestyle changes such as avoiding alcohol, smoking, and losing weight. Medicines that relax the central nervous system should also be avoided. Alternative treatments such as breathing exercises or gargling with salt water are also used.
32592	In general, treatment for occipital neuralgia is symptomatic and may include self-care measures such as rest and massage. In some instances, treatment may include antidepressants to manage pain that is particularly severe. Other treatment options include the use of local nerve blocks and steroids injections introduced directly into the affected area to reduce spasm and decrease inflammation.
32593	Workers, company management, union, and medical professionals need to be educated in order to prevent and identify the risk factors of occupational asthma. Exposure of workers from the causative agent is reduced, or they may be totally removed from exposure and undergo medical treatment. Patients recover from the disease depending on the severity of their case.
32594	OCD patients often undergo surgery. However, young patients may only undergo knee immobilization using crutches to allow the bone to reattach on its own. This method is done only the bone is partially connected to the joint. The patient then undergoes physiotherapy and x-ray or MRI to check the healing results. If the joint is not healed, doctors will recommend surgery. Patients have a 50% chance of healing without surgery.
32597	Patients may seek a genetic counselor to help deal with their emotional and social adjustment problems. Others seek medical help and use ordinary or special glasses, or contact lenses to help correct their vision. Other patients are also treated using visual aids and environmental changes to expand the limit of their vision.
32598	Treatment for ocular herpes varies according to the location of the infection within the eye. In superficial infections, the use of antiviral eye drops or ointments, or oral antiviral pills may be sufficient to alleviate symptoms. In severe cases, a doctor or specialist may need to perform debridement, which entails scraping away the infected corneal epithelial cells with a corneal spatula instrument or a cotton swab. After debridement, a soft contact lens may be placed on the affected eye to allow the cornea to heal.
32599	The only successful treatment for ocular histoplasmosis syndrome is photocoagulation, a type of laser surgery wherein a small powerful beam of light is used to destroy the fragile abnormal vessels and the small amount of the overlying retinal tissue.
32600	Treatment includes surgery which may include iridectomy iridotrabe culectomy, iridocyclectomy and enucleation. Radiation therapy or transpupillary thermotherapy or TTT may also be used to treat ocular melanoma.
32602	Patients are prescribed with medications based on the severity of their condition. Treatment is usually recommended for individuals with weak immune system.
32603	Individuals with Oculodentodigital syndrome may be required to wear special eyeglasses to help them with learning to read. They have difficulty reading due to the size of their eyes.
32604	Individuals with Oculodentodigital syndrome may be required to wear special eyeglasses to help them with learning to read. They have difficulty reading due to the size of their eyes.
32606	Albinism cannot be cured but the condition can be improved through treatments that improve vision, and measures protecting the eyes from bright lights. Success of any treatement depends on the severity and type of the condition
32607	Albinism cannot be cured but the condition can be improved through treatments that improve vision, and measures protecting the eyes from bright lights. Success of any treatement depends on the severity and type of the condition.
32608	Albinism cannot be cured but the condition can be improved through treatments that improve vision, and measures protecting the eyes from bright lights. Success of any treatement depends on the severity and type of the condition.
32610	The condition has no cure. However, patients are treated through physical therapy to alleviate the symptoms and deformities. Physical therapy stretches, strengthens, trains muscle mobility to improve flexion and range of motion. Occupational therapy helps patients in their day to day living and address psychosocial and emotional implications of the condition. Patients may also undergo orthopedic surgery if the condition calls for the procedure. All interventions depend on the severity of the patient's condition. There is a possibility for patients undergoing treatment to have normal cognition and speech as well as functional mobility that could lead to an independent and productive lifestyle.
32612	The odontoma is surgically removed under general anesthesia. Patients may undergo orthodontic treatment move an impacted permanent tooth to its normal position. Early diagnosis of odontomas results in a less complex and expensive treatment and ensures better prognosis.
32613	A patient is helped by a psychologist and a dentist to manage and reduce his or her fear. The patient is taught with relaxation and cognitive techniques while gradually exposed to the stimuli. Dentists may also use mild sedatives or general anesthesia during a dental procedure to reduce the patient's anxiety.
32614	A person is exposed to non-dangerous stimuli at a certain period during which he or she experiences no pain during the process to help reduce or overcome the fear.
32615	Treatment of the disease is by surgery to remove the excess fluids. Anti-inflammatory drug therapies are also given to prevent swelling and inflammation of the affected organs.
32616	Patients first undergo therapy, which stops at oral ingestions. Colonoscopic decompression may be required but prior to that, a pharmacological way of decompressing the colon using neostigmine is considered. Neostigmine induces bradyarrhythmia and bronchospasms, thus atropine be ready for immediate use.
32617	Treatment options for Ohtahara syndrome are limited. Frequently, anti-epileptic drugs and steroids are used to manage the seizures, but with little success or limited efficacy. In cases where a focal brain lesion has been identified, surgical intervention may be necessitated. Other treatment options for Ohtahara syndrome are mostly symptomatic and supportive.
32618	Persons with oikophobia usually undergo therapies during which they may be gradually exposed to the stimuli of their fear. This process helps them reduce or overcome the feeling of dread when facing their fear. Some drugs may also be prescribed but there may be side effects or severe symptoms of withdrawal because they only suppress the symptoms.
32619	Patients with olfactophobia due to migraines use pleasant odors to counteract their reaction.
32620	Treatment options for oligodendroglioma tumors include surgery, chemotherapy, and radiotherapy. In most cases, the first line of treatment is surgical removal of the oligodendroglioma, followed by extensive chemotherapy, and then, in some cases, with stereotactic radiosurgery.
32621	If an underlying condition is responsible for oligohydramnios, the underlying cause must be treated first. Another priority in therapy is dealing with any placenta abnormality, which, in some cases, may require fetal surgery during pregnancy. In severe cases, the pregnancy may have to be prematurely terminated through induced labor or a Cesarian delivery.
32622	To treat oligospermia, the affected male must reduce or completely cease exposure to toxic factors that are causing his condition. If the low sperm count is caused by a systemic disease, treating the underlying cause is, of course, imperative. Other treatment options, depending on the cause or factors involved, are: treatment of prostatitis and antisperm antibodies; treatment of sexual dysfunction; non-specific drug treatments; as well as preventive measures such as cryopreservation or vaccination. In addition, assisted procreation, such as insemination and in vitro fertilization, may also be an option for men who want to start a family.
32624	There is no current treatment for the disease.
32625	Patients sometimes undergo a bone marrow transplantation and cord blood stem cells.
32626	Since there is no specific treatment, avoid activities with risks of tick exposure. Apply insect repellent on skin and use protective clothing when doing activities outdoors. Maintain hydration and provide precautions for patients with bleeding disorders.
32627	Patients with Onchocerciasis are primarily treated with the drug called ivermectin, once every twelve months. To achieve best results, people in villages with infected persons are treated at the same time. The drug prevents adult worms from producing offsprings, thus preventing the spread and transmission of the condition. A drug called Doxycycline may also be added to the regimen.
32628	The benign renal oncocytoma is cured by nephrectomy.
32629	Newborn who had congenital Ondine's curse do not survive infancy unless they were provided with ventilatory assistance when they sleep or a Phrenic Nerve Pacing/diaphragm pacing. Other patients needed tracheotomies and a lifetime support of mechanical ventilation. Lately, Biphasic Cuirass Ventilation has shown to be effective without the need of a tracheotomy.
32631	The goal of onychogryphosis treatment is to reduce the thickness of the nail. This is done either by cutting and filling the affected nail or by surgically removing the nail. The nail germinal matrix needs to be destroyed to prevent the damaged nails from regenerating and continuing to produce a tick new toenail. If the nail bed is not ablated, small spikes will grow, popping out across the surface of the old nail area. Frequent nail cutting and/or trimming is an integral part of treatment.
32632	Treatment of onychomycosis is challenging because the infection is embedded within the nail and is difficult to reach. As a result full removal of symptoms is so slow and may take a year or more.
32633	Oophoritis can be treated medically or surgically. If medications fail to manage symptoms within 28-72 hours, surgical intervention may be required. Surgical options for oophoritis include: laparoscopy with drainage of the abscess; adnexa removal; as well as total abdominal hysterectomy and bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy.
32634	Treatment options for open-angle glaucoma include: eye drops; medications; beta blockers; miotic drugs; laser trabeculoplasty; conventional eye surgery; and trabulectomy.
32635	Specific treatment for ophthalmitis depends on the type of eye inflammation involved. In general, ophthalmitis may require surgical intervention in the form of evisceration and enucleation (removal) of the affected eye. In addition, immunosuppressive therapy is also used to control the eye inflammation and improve prognosis.
32636	The effects of the diseases such as cleft palate, extra fingers and toes as well as other physical abnormalities can be treated with surgery. Problems with the internal organs meanwhile have to be treated based on their symptoms. Learning disabilities may undergo special education programs.
32637	Treatment depends on the type of opportunistic infection, but usually involves different antibiotics.
32638	Various methods are used to treat Oppositional Defiant Disorder such as using a parent training model and increasing compliant behaviors by focusing on positive approaches. Methods are then introduced later in the program to extinguish negative or noncompliant behaviors.
32638	The treatment for oppositional defiant disorder involves your primary care doctor and a qualified mental health professional or child development professional. It can also help to seek the services of a psychologist specializing in family therapy.
32640	Patient with optic atrophy cannot recover from their condition because the optic nerve, which is part of the brain, has no capability for regeneration.
32641	Neuro-ophthalmologists monitor patients for vision changes since there is no effective treatment for the condition at present. There is no recovery from loss of vision because a damaged optic nerve, which is not capable of regeneration.
32642	Patients may be prescribed with prescribed eye drops that decrease the intra-ocular pressure and relieve mechanical stress on fibers of the optic disc. Patients rarely develop choroidal neovascular membranes adjacent to the optic disc that could bleed and inflict retinal scarring. This complication is prevented through laser treatment, photodynamic therapy, or other evolving therapies.
32643	Systemic intravenous treatment with corticosteroids is used to quickly heal the optic nerve. Patients treated through oral administration of corticosteroids may experience more recurrent attacks compared with non-treated patients.
32644	Surgical intervention is often necessary to completely remove the cancerous tissue. The type of surgery will depend on the location and extent of the tumor. If the cancer has not spread, the tumor or tumors can be easily removed. However, if the cancer has spread, the procedure becomes more extensive. In some cases, part of the tongue, part of the throat, or bone tissue from the jaw or mouth, may have to be surgically removed. Post surgery, the patient may require feeding devices to aid in nutrition, or prosthetics to replace the removed portions of the mouth. Some patients may also opt for reconstructive surgery. Radiation therapy and chemotherapy are also used to treat oral and throat cancer.
32645	Surgical excision (removal) of the tumor is usually recommended if the tumor is small enough, and if surgery is likely to result in a functionally satisfactory result. Radiation therapy is usually used in conjunction with surgery, or as the definitive radical treatment, especially if the tumor is inoperable.
32646	In oral candidiasis treatment, the focus is to deal with the underlying cause such as diabetics or poor glucose control. A common treatment method is the use of topical anti-fungal medications, such as amphotericin B, miconazole, or nystatin. Immunocompromised patients may require further systemic therapy.
32647	Individuals are advised to avoid predisposing factors such as ceasing tobacco cessation, smoking, quitting betel chewing, or abstinence from alcohol. The lesion undergoes a biopsy and surgically removed if pre-cancerous changes or frank cancer is detected.
32648	Patients are treated by dermatologists, dentists, as well as Ear, Nost, Throat specialists to closely monitor the disease since it may develop to oral cancer.
32649	Treatment includes administration of antibiotics, use of anti-fungal creams which may be in lozenges and tablets.
32650	Treatment depends if the orchitis is viral or bacterial. Viral Orchitis is usually through medications of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs such as naproxen and ibuprofen. On the other hand, if the orchitis is bacterial, oral administration of antibiotics such as cefriaxone and ciprofloxacin and doxycycine among others may be advised to treat the bacteria orchitis.
32651	Medical care: symptomatic treatment with moist dressings, local antiseptics, immobilization of the finger, systematic or topical antibiotics to treat bacterial infection Surgical care: underlying dermis dissection for large exophytic lesions, curettage and electrodesiccation for persistent lesion, Shave excision another way to treat lesion, Cryotherapy to speed up recovery.
32651	Most cases of Orf resolve spontaneously even without treatment. In persistent cases, medications in the form of analgesics, aspirin, paracetamol, and a variety of anti-viral drugs may be used.
32652	Organic brain syndrome is treated based on the cause. Patients are not primarily diagnosed with the syndrome.
32653	The infection is treated with antibiotics -- tetracyclines and chloramphenicol. Alternatively, erythromycin is used in cases of pregnant women and children under 9 years old for whom tetracycline is contraindicated. Remission of symptoms is usually evident within 48-72 hours. A relapse can occur, and treatment must continue for at least 10-14 days after the fever drops.
32654	Oropharyngeal cancer can be treated with one or a combination of these methods: surgical removal of cancerous tumors; radiation therapy; chemotherapy; and the use of angiogenesis inhibitors to stop the growth of new blood vessels that supply the cancerous mass. Reconstructive surgery and rehabilitation therapy may also be integrated in the overall treatment.
32655	Patients are administered with cytidine monophosphate and uridine monophosphate to reduce urinary orotic acid and anemia. They may also be administered with uridine, which when converted to UMP, bypasses the metabolic block provide a source of pyrimidine for the body.
32656	Treatment for orthorexia nervosa must begin with stabilizing any medical problems, if existent. Education about proper nutrition is an important part of treatment. People with orthorexia are often resistant to this part of treatment because they believe they know what a healthy diet is, and that their diet is healthy. They are proud of their dietary choices.
32657	Treatment includes administration of medications like fludrocortisone to boost blood volume; lifestyle changes and compression stockings to relieve the legs from pain and swelling.
32658	Symptoms of patients are varied thus treatment are customized for each patient. However, the treatment only controls the symptoms and does not cure the disorder. Patients may also be prescribed with medications, although their responses to the medications are varied. Patients should also avoid activities that trigger the disorder such as prolonged upright posture or use of postural maneuvers and pressure garments.
32659	The condition is treated with Rest and reduction of pain through ice packs, and if required paracetamol or ibuprofen. Sometimes, bracing or use of plaster of paris to enforce joint immobilization is required. Surgery is rarely performed to patients with mature skeletons.
32660	Drugs may be used to relieve bone pain and prevent the disease to develop. Patients should also be on a diet and exercise regimen recommended by their physicians to avoid weight gain. Skeletal health and joint mobility must be maintained.
32661	Since there are no known treatments for osteoarthritis, treatments are mainly provided to manage and relieve pain. This includes ample rest, exercise, lose weight, application of heat and cold treatment, pain creams, braces and shoe inserts. Initial treatment options for mild osteoarthritis For mild osteoarthritis pain that is bothersome, but not enough to have a great impact on your daily activities, your doctor may recommend that you:
32662	Some OCD lesions may not cause lameness and will probably not require specific treatment. In some cases, surgery may be required to prevent the possibility of lameness.
32663	The treatment of osteochondritis dissecans is typically intended to restore the proper functioning of the joints that are affected as well as to relieve pain. Doctors may initially recommend for some conservative measures that include resting and immobilizing joints, use of some nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory medications, avoidance of physical activity and low intensity physical therapy.
32664	In most cases, conservative treatment - such as resting the affected area for a period of time - is attempted first. A cast is sometimes recommended to fully immobilize the area and allow it to heal. In severe cases, surgical intervention may be necessitated, particularly in cases where abnormal bone fragments need to be removed from a joint.
32665	Specific treatments for osteochondroma may differ depending on the age, overall health, and medical history of the patient. Often, this medical condition will require surgery and medications to control pain.
32666	Up until today, there is still no known cure to OI. Most of the treatments and medications are targeted to prevent as well as control the symptoms. These treatments will hopefully improve independent mobility of the patient and prevention of fractures. Mobility aids may also be required such as wheelchairs, and braces, especially in severe cases.
32667	Specific treatment for osteogenic sarcoma is usually determined depending on several predisposing factors such as age, extent of disease, tolerance to medication, preference and expectations. Treatment would usually include amputation, surgical removal, chemotherapy, radiation, prosthesis, and rehabilitation.
32669	Osteoid osteoma treatment may involve a number of surgical options, such as: percutaneous radiofrequency ablation; curettage; en bloc resection; and internal fixation.
32670	Treatment for osteoma may involve symptom-alleviating medications and surgical removal of the affected areas. In cases where osteoma does not present with any symptoms, no treatment may be necessary.
32671	Treatment includes regular injections of Vitamin D that is administered every six months or so. This has been proven convenient and effective treatment. Other medications take in the form of tablets, liquids, powders and Vitamin D supplements.
32672	Treatment includes the administration of certain intravenous medications. Oral treatment may also be given. Monitoring the patient's condition is highly important using blood tests and x-ray. For severe cases, surgery may also be required. Depending on the condition of the patient, this can either be managed through an out-patient or patent may be required to be hospitalized for a period of time.
32673	Fosamax is one of the primary treatment for bone diseases including osteonecrosis. This is a type of an oral biphosphate that have displayed a promising effect on patients suffering from this condition.
32674	Osteoporosis is more or less preventable for most people. Prevention is very important, while treatments are available for osteoporosis, no cure currently exists. Prevention of osteoporosis involves many aspects, including nutrition, exercise, lifestyle, and early screening.
32675	There are various treatment approaches for this medical condition. Actimmune is usually administered to effectively delay the progression of the disease. Bone marrow transplantation may also be considered from a matched donor.
32676	There's no specific treatment for osteophytes. If it causes pain however, nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) are often prescribed.
32678	The goal of osteoporosis treatment is targeted towards the prevention of bone fractures. This is made by stopping bone loss as well as increasing bone strength and density. Treatment approach include lifestyle change, medications to stop bone loss along with increase in strength of the bone and medications to promote bone development.
32679	Treatment for osteosarcomas includes a combination of local therapy and chemotherapy. Local therapy may consist of surgical removal of the cancerous tumor, and, when applicable, radiotherapy to kill cancer cells. Chemotherapy usually follows, along with symptom management medications.
32680	Since osteosclesoris is primarily considered to be not a disease, there is no treatment required for it. However, regular x-rays are recommended to check the progress of the disorder, if there is any.
32681	There are several treatment options for otitis. Mild ear infections spontaneously clear within a few days. In such cases, no treatment is necessary, other than the occasional over-the-counter pain relievers to ease discomfort. In more persistent otitis cases, antibiotic therapy may be recommended. In really severe cases where the fluid in the patient's ear is affecting hearing, surgical drainage of the ear fluid may be required.
32682	Treatment for swimmer's ear include: cleaning, topical and oral medications, and lifestyle modifications.
32683	Treatment plan is considered, taking into account the patient's age, risk factors for having resistant bacteria, immunization status, and hearing status.
32684	Treatment takes a number of forms and vary from one patient to another. Among the popular medications include sodium fluoride. To manage the progressive loss of hearing, amplification is often the remedy in forms of hearing aids and other hearing devices.
32685	Since this is a genetic disease, there is no known cure for OSMED. Treatments are primarily targeted to manage the symptoms such as improving the patient's hearing and some mobility aids for the patient.
32686	Treatment of ovarian cancer would typically involve the combination of chemotherapy and surgery. Tumor is usually removed during the early changes, and chemotherapy would usually follow surgical procedure.
32687	Treatment depends on your age, the type and size of your cyst, and your symptoms.
32689	The symptoms of overactive bladder may be alleviated through the following recommended treatments: behavioral interventions and medication called anticholinergics (antispasmodics).
32690	The treatment for overactive thyroid disease are anti-thyroid medications and radioactive iodine to slow the production of thyroid hormones. It may also be treated by thyroidectomy or the surgical removal of part of the thyroid gland.
32691	Overuse syndrome can be treated by occasional vacation from work in order to break the routine. Changes in work schedule and pacing can also help in preventing the progress of the illness.
32692	Prevention of OPSI is considered of paramount importance. This includes education and immunization of the patient against H influenzae and pneumoniae, N meningitidis. Antibiotic prophylactic therapy are usually recommended among children who also have hyposplenism.
32693	Surgery is the recommended treatment for this thyroid cancer. After which, the synthetic drug levothyroxine is prescribed.
32694	Treatment are primarily administered to alleviate this medical condition. Cortisteroids and Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs are among the common medications. Surgery may also be required in severe cases in the form of a vagotomy that is designed to improve swelling and articular pain. Other patients may also undergo cosmetic surgery.
32695	Because pachygyria is mainly considered as a structural defect, there are no treatments are currently available except for symptomatic treatments. This type of approach better manage associated seizures. If patient is also suffering from poor nutrition, a gastrotomy may also be considered, where a tube is attached to the airway to help patient digest food.
32697	Depending on the cause of the disease, treatment includes blood clot, high blood pressure, and cholesterol-lowering medications. Angioplasty may be a necessary treatment in certain cases.
32698	Treatment is focused on alleviating the pain as well as other complications. Surgery is also an option especially for severe cases. Bone-regulating medications will also help cause remission and stop damage to the bones.
32699	Paget's disease of the breast will typically require immediate surgery. This may include skin-sparing mastectomy, simple mastectomy, or modified radical mastectomy. The surgical procedure will largely depend of the skin condition as well as how advanced the underlying cancer is. Nipple reconstruction may also be an option when necessary.
32700	Treatment for this condition includes biophosphonates which is know n to help the body in rebuilding and producing normal bones. Exercise to strengthen the bone is also recommended although this should be supervised by a therapist to prevent bone injury. Necessary protection of the joints may also be required as a form of preventive measure. In severe cases, a surgical procedure may be required either to repair, rebuild or replace a badly damaged bone or joint.
32701	Oral medications, bladder distention, nerve stimulation are among the recommended treatments for the Painful Bladder Syndrome.
32702	Painful intercourse may be treated through a change in hygiene habit and through counseling and sex therapy. Medications may likewise be prescribed
32704	Treatment options for palate cancer include: surgical removal of the cancer; radiation therapy; chemotherapy; and, in some cases, microsurgery and rehabilitation surgery. Rehabilitation will usually consist of speech therapy as well as physical and occupational therapy.
32705	Depending on the cause, patients suffering from paleness are prescribed to take adequate amounts of rest as well as iron-rich diets to regain their strength and normal blood count.
32707	There is not treatment yet available for the disease.
32710	Treatment can be done by topical medications, sympathectomy, botox injections, and iontophresis. Others meanwhile resort to alternative medicine.
32711	Treatment for Keratolytics include 5-10% salicylic acid in a form of a ointment base. Dermatophyte infections should to be treated immediately. However, the treatment needs to be administered in a lifelong basis to better manage the symptoms that are associated with the disease.
32712	Treatment options for managing palpitations include: beta-blocking drugs; intravenous antiarrhythmic medication; cardioversion; and atrial fibrillation.
32714	There are no treatments for Pancreas divisuonm mainly because it ahs no apparent symptoms. However, patients may opt to have a surgical treatments to prevent bile duct blockage. This will be based on the assessment of doctors.
32715	Treatment for pancreatic cancer would largely depend on the stage as well as the location of the cancer. The age of the patient, overall health, as well as personal preferences is also taken into consideration when planning for a treatment plan. Like any other forms of cancer, the first goal of the treatment is to eliminate cancer cells as well ass preventing the cancer cells to develop further and spread. In advanced cases, management programs are offered as well as surgical procedures and of course chemotherapy.
32716	Appropriate treatment may differ may will depend on which type of cyst as well as whether it causes symptoms. In most cases, no treatment is necessary. For benign psuedocyst, it is often left untreated if it does not have any symptoms. For cysts with high risk of growth, surgery may be required.
32718	Treatment approach for Pancreatic Islet Cell Neoplasms is individualized among patients. This is to ensure that balance management of the hormonal effects is properly managed. Most of these cases are potentially life-threatening which is why initial therapies are mainly aimed towards the stabilization of the patient's condition in order to derive a preoperative evaluation.
32719	Treatment will primarily depend upon the certain type of tumor that is discovered as well as if the said tumor is malignant or benign. In the case of malignant tumors, the cells may spread rapidly to other organs and may not be treatable. However, in general, tumors can be removed through regular surgical procedure when possible.
32720	Treatment includes therapy for alcohol abuse, chemical dependency or smoking if these factors play a role in your pancreatitis. A team approach involving a chemical dependency counselor and a psychologist trained in cognitive therapy would be the most helpful.
32721	Total pancreatectomy is considered to be the most important and effective treatment in pancreatoblastoma. This is often supplemented with Neoadjuvant chemotherapy that has been proven to be an important tool in unresectable tumors, which is believed to increase the disease-free survival.
32722	The treatments for most children with PANDAS would usually include some behavioral therapy as well as anti-obssesional medications.
32723	Successful treatment can result to complete or partial recovery of hypopituitarism Treatment approaches include surgical procedures to remove the tumor and may also require radiation treatment. In cases where the hormone deficiency would persist, hormone replacement medications are often prescribed.
32724	Treatment for panic attacks known to be highly effective in eliminating the symptoms of the disorder, Many patients that are on medication are able to resume with their usual activities. Some of these treatments include antidepressants, norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors, serotonin, psychotherapy, and tricyclic antidepressants.
32725	The treatment for panic attacks are administration of medications such as serotonin reuptake inhibitors. serotonin and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors and benzodiazpines, and psychotherapy.
32726	Panic Disorder is real and potentially disabling, but it could be controlled and successfully treated. Due to the intense symptoms that accompany Panic Disorder, it may be mistaken for a life-threatening physical illness. This misconception usually aggravates or triggers future attacks. People frequently visit the hospital emergency rooms when they are having panic attacks, and extensive medical tests may be performed to rule out these other conditions, thus creating further anxiety.
32727	Treatment of Panniculitis is often found unsatisfactory. There are some physicians that prescribe the use of anti-inflammatory medications. While others are required to go through chemotherapy sessions.
32730	Treatment of papilledema is normally aimed at treating the underlying disorder. Typically, diuretic drugs complemented with a weight loss program may be enough to reduce the production of the cerebrospinal fluid. Corticosteroids have also been known to be useful for treating the inflammation.
32731	Treatment for papilloedema depends primarily on the underlying cause. In general, elevated intracranial pressure may be controlled with the use of acetazolamide, glucocorticoids, and, when necessary, surgical shunting.
32732	Treatment for papilloma may include: cryosurgery (which entails freezing the warts); laser therapy; electrodesiccation; and in rare cases, surgery to remove large warts that are particularly resistant to treatment.
32734	The efficacy of amphotericin B, sulfonamides, as well as sulfamethoxazol plus trimethoprim, miconazole and ketoconazole was evaluated during the treatment of 500 patients suffering from paracoccidioidomycosis.
32735	Treatment primarily depends on the size of the tumor as well as its site of origin. The age of the patient as well as the general well-being are also taking into consideration. For most elderly patients, the tumors that are relatively small can be removed through a surgical procedure. This can also resolve the conductive hearing loss, as well as the presence of the pulsatile tinnitus. However, in cases where the tumor is large, radiation therapy is often recommended.
32736	Parainfluenza treatment is mostly supportive and symptomatic.
32737	Perhaps the only definite treatment for paralysis is to treat its underlying cause. The loss of strength and function in paralysis can be managed through a rehabilitation program, which may include: physical therapy, occupation therapy, respiratory therapy, speech therapy, and other specialties.
32738	Most cases of paralytic ileus will almost invariably require hospitalization. The bowel may have to be emptied using nasogastric (NG) tubes. If the intestines are not effectively decompressed by NG tubes, surgery may be necessitated to remove the obstruction. In addition, maintaining proper nutrition is imperative, with essential food and fluids administered intravenously.
32739	Treatment for paralytic shellfish poisoning is based mostly on supportive measures. Ventilatory support may be needed in most cases, along with other forms of artificial respiration. If ingestion of toxins is fairly recent, the patient's gut may be decontaminated through gastric lavage as well as administration of activated charcoal or dilute bicarbonate solution.
32740	The medications that will be prescribed would generally depend on the certain type of PMC. Carbonic anhydrase inhibitors are given but should be strictly monitored since it has been known to be potentially dangerous when combined with other medications.
32741	Paranasal sinus cancer is treated by radiotherapy as well as surgery to unclog the mucous linings that cause breathing and speech difficulties.
32742	The most important factor when dealing with this type of disease is early and rapid diagnosis. PCD is often found to be most common among patients suffering from breast, lung, ovarian, or lymphatic cancers. In addition to the treatment program for cancer, PCD patients would usually undergo "plasmapheresis" or blood dialysis.
32743	Treatment of paraneoplastic syndromes entails treating the cancer itself; or, on occasion, reducing or suppressing the immune response that produces the symptoms. Specific treatment will depend on the type of paraneoplastic syndrome present, and may include: cancer treatment; medication; plasmapheresis; intravenous immunoglobulin (IVIg); and physical therapy.
32744	Treatment approaches include genetic testing along with genetic counseling during pregnancy stage. If the infant is found without any other birth defects, a surgical procedure may be performed to correct the opening of the abdominal wall.
32745	Primary forms of treatment for this medical condition include counseling and therapy to help patients modify their behavior. There are also certain medications prescribed to reduce a person's sexual drive, hence, reducing frequent occurrences.
32746	Mild paraphimosis can be manipulated by compressing the glans penis and then moving the foreskin back to its normal position, often with the help of a lubricant. If this doesn't work, a dorsal slit procedure or circumcision may be done. The Dundee technique, an alternate method in which multiple punctures are placed in the swollen skin and then expressing the edema fluid with manual pressure, may also be done. If untreated for too long, paraphimosis can lead to necrosis of the glans penis, at which point partial amputation of the distal penis is almost invariable necessary.
32747	The best approach to treat and manage paraplegia is to identify the cause of the problem. In cases where the paralysis is a result of a trauma to the spinal cord, surgical stabilization may be required along with high doses of steroid treatment. In most cases, a surgical procedure is required.
32748	Because the disorder is deemed not contagious, at present there isn't a known cure for it. The lesions though, can very well be treated by employing ultraviolet therapy.Topical steroids and and also the use of antibiotics are used as treatments for the lesions. Treatments usually employed involves many various therapies usually targeting the patient's immune system and some causes like bacteria, virus, or other dermatological causes.
32748	Because the disorder is deemed not contagious, at present there isn't a known cure for it. The lesions though, can very well be treated by employing ultraviolet therapy.Topical steroids and and also the use of antibiotics are used as treatments for the lesions. Treatments usually employed involves many various therapies usually targeting the patient's immune system and some causes like bacteria, virus, or other dermatological causes.
32749	Treatment of this condition will include having the patient take the Psychological test and at some point exposing the patient gradually to his fear. Although the classical approach may sometimes cause more trauma to the patient involved, most doctors or physicians still believe in its healing capacity. The patients however should be very cooperative to make the program effective.
32750	Use of antibiotics is often employed to treat the illness while patients manifesting intestinal perforation or even hemorrhage are advised to undergo surgery. Much supportive care is required for the patient to recover from the illness.
32751	There is no known effective means of treating patients with the disorder since it is also not deemed very serious in most cases. Sufferers though differ from one extent to another making it difficult to treat and distigiush them. Although therapies can be done to answer the problem, it usually takes a lot of time for the patient to be free of the disorder.
32752	The course of treatment for paresthesia would be decided by a specialist called a neurologist. Medications commonly used to treat paresthesia include: intravenous gamma globulin (IVIG), gabitril and antiviral medication, immunosuppressant prednisone, and anticonvulsants, among others.
32753	Treatments for Parkinson's disease may have to be based on the underlying cause of its occurence so it will entail evaluation of the patient. Some drugs may be administered and in some cases also would employ speech therapies and exercises to move the muscles. Surgeries are also done if found out that some abnormal growths are present which may have been causing the problem.
32754	Corrective treatments are often applied to patients with Parkinsonism usually getting to the cause of the disorder. If in cases that a drug caused the disorder, the drug is them not anymore given to the patient. Other drugs that are used to treat Parkinsonism includes levodopa but are often not effective. Therapies are also administered to patients which includes daily tasks to promote frequent movement of the body thereby moving the muscles. Oftentimes, physical therapists can help in treating the patients with Parkinsonism.
32755	In acute paronychia cases, physicians may treat the infection by puncturing and draining the affected area. The moisture or pus taken from it will be subjected to laboratory tests for bacteria or viral infection. Antibiotics are prescribed to treat bacterial infection, while an antiviral medication will be given to treat herpes infection or viral infection. In the cases of chronic paronychia, a topical steroid is prescribed together with a topical or oral antifungal medicine and antibiotics.
32756	Treatment options for parotid gland cancer include symptom-relief medications, possible surgical removal of the cancerous mass, radiotherapy to kill the cancer tissue, and chemotherapy, among others.
32757	Recurrent parotitis may be treated with surgery to end the severe and frequent episodes. However, surgery can damage a portion of facial nerves, and the decision to have surgery must be weighed greatly based on a number of factors. Surgical options available for parotitis include: superficial parotidectomy; fibrosis; tympanic neurectomy; and ligation of the parotid duct.
32758	Treatments for Paroxysmal cold hemoglobinuria vary depending on the causing agent. Antibiotics have been found effective if caused by a bacterial organism. In some cases, it doesn't need immediate treament as it will usually go away after the causing agent has been treated. It also usually don't last long.
32759	Some treatments for Paroxysmal nocturnal hemoglobinuria include medications using steroids like prednisolone. Therapies like transfusion therapy may also be needed to complement treatment for significant anemia.
32760	Parry-Romberg syndrome is an incurable disorder so there is no cure or treatments developed that can stop Parry-Romberg syndrome from progressing. Surgery to reconstruct damaged tissues may be needed.
32762	There is no real treatment for the disorder as it only comes and goes as the patient gets pregnant or is about to give birth. Unless it will already threaten the life of the mother and the child she's carrying.
32763	Treatments done for the disorder had been designed to address just the symptom but not the problem itself. It is done by drinking less fluid, avoiding places with busy public restrooms where lots of people are using and looking for less-busy or restrooms that can accomodate one person at a time only, using restrooms that are already familiar and comfortable for the patient, some are advised to think about water flowing freely, use of a catheter, closing his eyes and just imagine that he is alone. There are also actual treatments applied for the condition. These include cognitive behavior therapy,anti-anxiety medications, and training with biofeedback.
32764	Self-care treatment is sufficient to treat the parvovirus infection but Blood transfusions may be necessary in some cases.
32765	High dose of penicillin is the common cure. As an alternative tetracycline and chloramphenicol is used in beta-lactam intolerant patients.
32766	Therapies are being studied to treat the defect and to avoid the condition but still has not been proven effective.
32767	The conservative approach to treating patellar tendinitis aims to reduce the strain on your tendon and then gradually build up the tendon's strength.
32768	Usually putting ice on your knee, changing your activities and following a physical therapy program works best. This kind of program may include exercises to make your muscles stronger and more flexible.
32769	Treatment can be done by proper exercise and adequate rest. Cold compress applications also help reduce the pain.
32770	Infants manifesting symptoms which are not adverse or not so serious may be observed and monitored at home. Symptomatic Patent ductus asteriosus are treated using non-surgical or surgical methods or even both.
32771	Treatment consists of blood-thinning medications, and surgery to close the patent foramen ovale.
32772	Cognitive behavioral therapy, and the help of support groups are found to be effective treatments for pathological gambling.
32773	The treatment options for pathological stealing include medications and psychotherapy.
32774	There is still not a know treatment for the syndrome.
32775	The disease is very rare, and no specified treatments are found yet to cure the disease.
32776	General avoidance to peanut is the most effective prevention of an allergy attack. While this allergy may not be a life-threatening condition, it can cause extreme discomfort and difficulty in breathing that often requires immediate medical attention.
32777	While there are already some companies that developed some promising and also effective drugs which can counteract peanut allergies, it still has been proven in countless legal battles. Peanut hypersensitivity is most commonly treated by administering diet that excludes peanuts and serious avoidance of all foods that may contain or be contaminated with peanuts or even peanut oils.
32778	Medical treatment is limited to surgery and ensuring defects involving the heart and/or lungs are controlled. Before operation many tests are usually to be performed. These include, however are not limited to, a CT scan, pulmonary function tests, and cardiology exams.
32779	There is still no known treatment for the disease. Some studies suggest that it is brought about genetically and is transferred hereditarily.
32780	Head lice infecting the hair and the body are commonly treated with shampoos or cream rinses formulated to kill the lice. People also use nit combs to remove lice and nits or eggs from the hair. High heat laudering can also help kill or remove body lice. Physician and pharmacist may also prescribe effective treatments.
32781	To treat pediculosis capitis, over-the-counter medication may be helpful. If it is not remedied by the same, prescription medication like Malathion which is also known commercially as the Ovide and Lindane may be used.
32782	Because the cause is not yet known, there are still no cures nor standard course for treating Pelizaeus-Merzbacher. Treatments through are more focused to specific symptoms. It may include administering medication for seizures and also spasticity. The patients are also subject to regular evaluations done by using physical medicine together with rehabilitation specialists, orthopedic specialists, developmental specialists and neurologic specialists.
32783	Nicotinamide or niacin taken orally is usually effective in reversing the clinical manifestations of pellagra. As patients usually malnourished and suffer from other vitamin deficiencies, provision of a high-protein diet and B-complex vitamins is needed for complete restoration of health.
32784	Treatment for Pelvic inflammatory disease will depend on what causes the disease and usually involving the use of some antibiotic therapy. Drugs must be given orally or can be also introduced intravaneously to the patient to start treatment immediately, as well as to increase effectivity of the antibiotic treatment. Hospitalization in some rare cases may be also necessary if the patient being treated has Tubo-ovarian abscesses or is also very ill. Other patients who needs to be in the hospital care are pregnant or incompetent, immunodeficient, or patients who have a life-threatening condition which cannot be ruled out. A gynecologist should be consulted for the treatment to be administered to the patient as well as treating both partners with STD.
32785	Treatment for pelvic lipomatosis uses a conservative approach which involves the use of some symptomatic treatment as well as follow-up.Ultrasonic-assisted lipectomy device have also been used together with reimplantation of the ureters.
32786	In most cases, treatment for Pemphigus is done by administering oral steroids such as prednisone. In severe cases though, intravenous gamma globulin is found to be effective. Some mild cases respond to topical steroids. A powerful cocktail combination of immune suppressant drugs is at times used to halt rapid bronchiolitis obliterans progression. The cocktail includes azathioprine, solumedrol, thalidomide, and ciclosporin. Plasmapheresis can be useful too.
32787	In most cases, treatment for Pemphigus is done by administering oral steroids such as prednisone. In severe cases though, intravenous gamma globulin is found to be effective. Some mild cases respond to topical steroids. A powerful cocktail combination of immune suppressant drugs is at times used to halt rapid bronchiolitis obliterans progression. The cocktail includes azathioprine, solumedrol, thalidomide, and ciclosporin. Plasmapheresis can be useful too.
32788	In most cases, treatment for Pemphigus is done by administering oral steroids such as prednisone. In severe cases though, intravenous gamma globulin is found to be effective. Some mild cases respond to topical steroids. A powerful cocktail combination of immune suppressant drugs is at times used to halt rapid bronchiolitis obliterans progression. The cocktail includes azathioprine, solumedrol, thalidomide, and ciclosporin. Plasmapheresis can be useful too.
32789	Treatment for Pendred syndrome is only symptomatic so it just corrects the deafness of the patient but not necessarily addressing the root cause.
32790	Avoidance of penicillin and other types of antibiotics is the most effective cure for penicillin allergy. Allergy Discuss with your doctor possible alternative antibiotic medications to avoid allergy attacks.
32791	Penile candidiasis can be treated with antifungal drugs known as antimycotics. Examples of this are fluconazole, topical clotrimazole, topical ketoconazole, and topical nystatin. Severe infections may require caspofungin, amphotericin B, or voriconazole. In addition, penile candidiasis may indicate a more serious condition, such as an HIV infection or other immunodeficiency diseases. In such cases, treating the underlying condition is an imperative step in treatment.
32792	Possible treatments for penis cancer patients are: surgery, radiation therapy and chemotherapy. Treatment varies per patient depending on the progression of the cancer.
32793	There is no known treatment that is proven effective to cure Pentalogy of Cantrell.
32794	Treatments done for Pentosuria often includes therapies and medications which are administered orally.
32795	Mild cases of peptic ulcer in young patients are treated with H2 antagonists or antacids before undergoing EGD. Bismuth compounds are known to reduce or eliminate organisms. Patients taking non-steroidal anti-inflammatories (NSAIDs) are usually prescribed with Misoprostol to prevent peptic ulcers, which is a common side effect of NSAIDs. Severe cases of peptic ulcer require immediate surgery to repair perforation. When bleeding occurs, endoscopy can stop bleeding immediately.
32796	Treatment for Periarteritis nodosa involves administration of medications aimed at suppressing the patients' immune system. The medication will include prednisone as well as cyclophosphamide. Potassium citrate was also found to effectively prevent lesions of the arteries.
32797	Treatment depends on severity of the disease. Mild cases of Pericarditis may improve on its own. The following treatments may be advised: bed rest and anti-inflammatory medication relating to pericarditis may be prescribed; in severe cases, surgery may be required.
32798	Treatment depends on where the opening is. Conservatively, restricted movement or bed rest to allow the fistula to heal. In severe cases, surgery may be required to close the opening.
32799	Treatment for Perilymph fistula is consist of administering conservative medical therapy or some suggests surgical exploration to close the fistula. Medical therapies also consists of strict bed rest, refraining or not doing any strenuous activity, and head elevation.
32800	Treatments for perinatal infections will depend on what causes the infection like in the case of infection caused by chlamydial wherein pregant women are given oral erythromycin for 7-14 days. Newborns are treated using erythromycin liquid with 10-14 days duration.
32801	Physicians have developed a possible treatment for Periodic Fever, Aphthous Stomatitis, Pharyngitis and Adenitis. It is through a single dose of prednisone given at the beginning of the fever episode. Although in some few cases, the dose of prednisone can cause the episodes to become even more frequent.
32802	Treatment can be done by the use of carbonic anhydrase inhibitors, taking supplemental oral potassium chloride, as well as lifestyle changes that include controlled levels of exercise.
32803	Treatment for Periododitis starts by practicing an excellent oral hygiene which will include a twice a day brushing of teeth with flossing and use of mouthwashs. Initial therapy for Periodontal includes the removal of the bacterial plaque and the calculus in the teeth by cleaning below the gumline b scaling and also root planing. A reevaluation is done to check if the initial therapy was successful. Surgery is then done if the initial treatment was found not successful. After surgery there should be maintenance which will involve visiting the dentist fpr regular checkups and also cleaning once every 3-4 months.
32804	Treatment for Peripartum Cardiomyopathy is like treating congestive heart failure. It includes use of diuretics, angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors, beta blockers right after giving birth or giving the woman some hydralzine/nitrates before giving brith.
32805	Most of the treatment strategies administered for Peripheral neuropathy address specific symptoms but not the disease itself. Pregabalin is an anticonvulsant drug which used to treat neuropathic pain and also as a therapy for acute seizures.
32806	Dependent on the severity of the disease, the following steps can be taken: Conservative measures include Smoking cessation (cigarettes promote PAOD and are a risk factor for cardiovascular disease). Angioplasty (PTA or percutaneous transluminal angioplasty) could be done on solitary lesions in large arteries, such as the femoral artery.
32807	The treatment for peritoneal mesothelioma includes surgery, chemotherapy, radiation, and clinical trials, or a combination of all four.
32808	Like many cancer treatments, peritoneal cancer is treated through surgery to remove the cancer as well as chemotherapy. Radiotherapy is used occasionally if the cancer comes back after surgery and chemotherapy. Because this type of cancer can only be detected in its advanced stage, patients also need to supportive care.
32809	Treatments for Peritonitis will depend on how severe the patient's state is. It may include general supportive measures administration like vigorous rehydration of the intravenous and correction of disturbances of the electrolyte. Antibiotics are also given intravenously. Although antibiotics may also be directly applied through infusion into the peritoneum. Therapy will also be given to the patients as part of medication. Surgery or laparotomy is also needed to fully explore and lavage the affected peritoneum. Surgery also will allow the physician to correct any damage of the cavity causing the peritonitis.
32810	Treatments for Periventricular leukomalacia is done by administering medications such as anticonvulsant topiramate which is administered post-insult in vivo. Other medications also include Topiramate. It is important to always monitor children with Periventricular leukomalacia and should be given regular screenings in order to know what appropriate interventions to make.
32811	Pernicious anemia is often treated through administering supplements of vitamin B-12 because it is cause by deficiency of the vitamin. If it cannot be taken orally, it can also be administered via injection given once in a month.
32812	To treat Perniosis, the patient should be kept in a warm area, avoid scratching the skin inflammations, using of anti-itch creams like Calamine lotion or Zambuk ointment. In some severe cases Nifedipine may be used and for some recurrent cases.
32813	There is no known treatment for peroneal muscular atrophy. However, some treatments are prescribed to alleviate its symptoms, these include physical therapy, occupational therapy, and orthopedic devices. For serious cases, that is, when the afflicted suffers deformities, surgery is a treatment option.
32814	The use of a chest radiograph is important for the initial ranking of possible diagnoses and can assist in making decisions regarding empiric therapies and the need for further testing. In many cases, a normal chest radiograph in an immunocompetent patient rules out conditions such as carcinoma, tuberculosis, sarcoidosis or bronchiectasis.
32815	Treatments for Persistent sexual arousal syndrome can be done by discontinuing use of known medication that can cause it. Surgical treatment is also effective in some cases of this syndrome. In some cases where the cause is not known, arousal is reduced through the use of some antidepressants, anaesthetising gels, and antiandrogenic agents.
32816	Treatment used for Persistent truncus arteriosus is by neonatal surgical repair. The procedure involves closing the ventricular septal defect with a patch and then detaching the pulmonary arteries from the truncus arteriosus and then it is being connected to the right ventricle through a tube.
32817	Treatment for pertusis includes administration of an effective antibiotic like erythromycin or azithromycin. This will shorten effectively the infectious period of the disease but don't alter the outcome of the disease. In time though when treatment is administered on catarrhal stage the symptoms will be less severe. Erythromycin, clarithromycin, and azithromycin are used in America to treatment pertussis while trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole is usually used when the three medicines is not effective.
32818	The treatment for pervasive disintegrative disorder is behavior therapy, specifically designed to help the child learn or relearn verbal, social, and self-care skills.
32819	Treatment of Pes planus is appropriate if the patient complains of pain in foot or lower leg. Or can be if it affects the patient's knees or back. Treatment for Pes planus include using some helpful arch supports or orthotics, other exercises involving the foot which is recommended by the podiatrist or even foot gymnastics. Surgery can also provide a lasting relief to the patient but is seen only as a last choice. An artificial arch can be created through surgery and place in the sole but this is usually very expensive.
32820	Like food allergies, the primary treatment for pet allergy is to avoid pets and animals in general. However, if you want to keep your pet, it is best to clean home regularly and bathe the bet to avoid accumulation of dander. Always keep handy some medications in case of an allergy attack such as antihistamines.
32821	Medications which include ethosuximide, lamotrigine, and valproic acid are proven to be effective treatment for petit mal seizures.
32822	There is no treatment developed yet to aid Peutz-Jeghers syndrome.
32823	It is advised to always consult a physician before applying any treatment for the disease. The patients are also advised to really avoid bending or forcing the erect penis back to the former alignment because this could cause injuries to the organ which can be serious and can also make the condition worst. There are also many oral medication given as treatments but results are not yet very reliable. Some also considered surgeries like the Nesbit operation. This is however considered as the last option. Some counseling are also done as treatment for Peyronie's Disease.
32824	The only known treatment for Pfeiffer syndrome now is gene therapy which is also not yet found to have a great impact.
32825	Phaeohyphomycosis can usually be controlled by surgical excision and chemotherapy. The preferred drugs used for medication are Amphotericin B and 5-fluorocytosine or Itraconazole. The invasion of this infection to the brain or bone has a serious projection.
32826	The treatment options for phantom pain may be medications, noninvasive therapies, and invasive options which include injections. In extreme cases, surgery may be resorted to.
32827	Treatment may include admitting oneself for psychiatric therapy where a psychiatrist can help him cope up with his fears. Telling him of the good things about medicines and often avoiding bad ones.
32828	Pharyngitis may be treated through warm salt water gargles, intake of lots of fluid, pain relievers, and antibiotics.
32829	Treatment for phenylketunuria requires restricting the patient from eating foods that are high in phenylalanine like breast milk, chicken, nuts, meat, legumes, fish, cheese and other products made from milk. Eating of foods that are starchy are also monitored like potatoes, pasta, bread, and corn. Instead of breast milk, babies are given supplementary formulas that help provide the deficient amino acids and other nutrients not absent in a protein free diet. Oral medications such as tetrahydrobiopterin will help reduce blood levels of the acids some patients. There are, however, many other forms of therapies which are still under study like gene therapy. The diet should be followed throughout the patient's life.
32829	A strict diet with limited phenylalanine may be imposed. The safe amount of phenylalanine varies per person. The doctor will determine the safe amounts through diet records, growth charts and blood levels of phenylalanine. A recently approved medication for PKU is also available for some people. This drug is to supplement the PKU diet.
32830	Treatments for pheochromocytoma may include surgical interventions in resectioning of the tumor. It can be done either by open laparotomy or just laparoscopy. Drug medications and salt are also advised to be taken by patients before any surgery should take place.
32831	Dengue fever can be treated by antibiotics. Maintaining clean surroundings and practicing correct sanitation procedures, particularly treatment of water facilities are advised to prevent the mosquitoes from thriving.
32832	There are several treatments available from simple stretching of the foreskin (sometimes known as the Beauge method), various topical steroid medication, slitting of foreskin or Preputioplasty, to its removal or circumcision.
32833	Superficial phlebitis may be treated through self-care steps such as applying hot compress on the affected area, and using an anti-inflammatory drug. Other treatment options include anticoagulant medications, filter, and surgery, like varicose vein stripping and bypass.
32834	Although still not effective in treating the condition in the aspect of functionality, few apply prosthetics as an alternative limbs or other various body parts missing. The latest is the use of myoelectric limbs which can detect electric signals sent by the nervous system and the muscles which will then allow the patient to move the affected limbs.
32835	Recent research has shown that antihistamines being used to treat rhinitis due to seasonal allergies may also reduce the occurrence of solar sneezes in those people suffering from both conditions.
32836	Aside from anti-epileptic drug sodium valproate (Epilim), the seizures may be prevented by following these simple steps: watching TV or using computer in well-lit surroundings, avoiding stress, minimizing exposures to the trigger, among other remedies.
32837	There are two basic ways of protecting your skin from the damaging effects of UVR: Block out most light with an opaque material such as sun protective clothing. Dark colored and densely woven fabric is more effective. Wear shirts with high collar and long sleeves, trousers or a long skirt, socks and shoes, a wide-brimmed hat and if possible also wear gloves. Some clothes are now labeled with UPF, the sun protection factor for fabrics. Select those with a UPF of 40+. Use topical sunscreen agent: Physical blocker/reflectant sunscreens. These are more effective sunscreens as they block out UVA and UVB by reflecting the ultraviolet radiation. Their only drawback is it can be messy to use and cosmetically unappealing.
32838	Treatment focuses on family guidance, environmental and psychosocial approaches. It is important for the patient to distinguish which items are edible and not edible, and to learn to associate negative consequences as results of eating non-food items.
32839	No cure exists for Pick's disease. What are available are medications that lessen clinical symptoms such cholinesterase inhibitors, antidepressants/anxiolytics, and antipsychotics.
32839	There is no single effective treatment to cure Pick's disease. Some medications meanwhile are prescribed to help lessen the effects the disorder such as cholinesterase inhibitors, antidepressants and antipsychotics.
32841	Pickwickian syndrome can be treated by weight loss, proper diet and exercise, as well as avoidance of foods that trigger obesity. Some patients need overnight mask ventilation to help widen the air passageways while they are asleep. This method has showed good results in treating the disorder.
32842	Even if the disorder poses no serious threats, patients are advised to be careful of exposing themselves too much to the sun as this condition increases the risk of sunburns and other related skin diseases. Other remedies include dermabrasion of affected areas and application of cell-suspensions, cosmetic camouflage and melanocyte transplant. It is important to educate patients on how this disease is transmitted.
32843	Treatment for this defect is by a string of surgical operations that not only fix the physical attributes of the patient's face, but also to repair system malfunctions. Nasopharengeal surgery is done to help fix the air passageways to be able to breathe normally and reduce speech problems.
32844	Treating the disorder involves two processes. The first is the removal of the joint's lining through traditional surgery. To prevent the recurrence of the pain, radiation therapy is conducted. Patients may also ease the pain and swelling by resting the affected joint and staying off their feet. Anti-inflammatory medicines could also reduce the pain and swelling. In extreme cases, the joint should be totally replaced.
32845	To treat pilar cysts, physicians cut into it and drain the material inside it like the keratin. Oral antibiotics are also prescribed for infected cysts, which occur very rarely. Surgical removal of the cysts is also and option to take.
32846	The treatment for piles include over-the-counter medications such as topical ointments or creams, surgery, schlerotherapy, stapling, and rubber band ligation.
32847	Information on how to treat the condition are lacking. The option of plucking ones hair is not very effective because the fibers are deeply rooted and thus hard to extract. This also does not prevent the growth of new hairs. The efficacy of shaving the hair and electrolysis shows no evidence of being effective, either. studies have been published to show how effective shaving or electrolysis would be. Cryosurgery, a method wherein extreme cold is applied to destroy diseased tissue, can be considered to take out the follicles totally.
32848	A combination of treatments are prescribed to individuals affected with the disease. Doctors oftentimes administer antibiotics and application of hot compress and depilatory creams on the patient's lower back. The cysts are lanced, while surgery has proven to be effective in curing the cysts. Even after the surgery, pilonidal cysts are likely to surface again.
32849	Pimples may be treated through the following: application of topical treatments on the affected area, and the taking of antibiotics to kill the bacteria. Laser and light-based therapies, as well as other cosmetic procedures, like chemical peels and microdermabrasion may likewise be done. Also, oral contraceptives are said to be effective treatment for pimples.
32850	A pinched nerve is primarily treated through physical therapy. Medications, particularly nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs and corticosteroid injections may likewise be helpful. Surgery may be done as a last resort.
32851	Various treatment options are available depending on the extent or severity of the patient's pinealoma. Some people will be asked to undergo radio therapy. Others may need to go through surgery. However, there are studies which pointed out that radiation therapy, regardless if the patient has undergone surgery or not, should be considered as the first choice of treatment. Still, surgery remains to be the means of diagnosis or treatment option for those whose response to radiation is delayed.
32852	Public health officials prevent the spread of the disease by tracing contacts and treating those infected with penicillin, tetracycline, or chloramphenicol.
32853	Anti-helminthic medication, such as Albendazole and Pyrantel, is the treatment against pinworm infection. To alleviate itching, a soothing ointment or cream is often prescribed.
32855	Treatment for pituitary cancer usually includes: surgical removal of the malignant tumor; radiation therapy; drug therapy for symptom management; and hormone supplements in cases when the tumor causes a decrease in the production of certain hormones.
32856	The cure for this condition is the treatment of the underlying cause. Hormone replacement medication is believed to be an effective treatment for the disorder.
32857	The treatment options for pituitary tumors are medications, radiation therapy, and surgery, either alone or in combination.
32858	To treat Pityriasis Alba, physicians will scrape some scales and examine it under the microscope to check for yeast or fungus. This procedure is called the KOH preparation. No treatment is necessary if it is not caused by any yeast infection. Cortisone cream may also be prescribed with ultraviolet light therapy.
32860	There is no cure for PLEVA. However, ultraviolet therapy, topical steroids, and antibiotics are used to treat the lesions. The treatment addresses the immune system and bacterial, viral, or dermatological causes.
32861	There is no exact treatment necessary. The disease appears to be entirely self-limiting in all cases. Usually the condition lasts a matter of weeks, but in some cases can last longer (up to six months). UV therapy or exposure to sunlight helps in some cases; serious precautions should be taken to avoid sunburn.
32862	At present, pityriasis rubra pilaris cannot be cured.
32863	Pityriasin versicolor may be treated through the use of over-the-counter medications. Severe cases thereof would however, require prescribed medication, which may either be oral or topical. The commonly prescribed medications are ketoconazole (cream, or tablets), selenium sulfide lotion, itraconazole capsules.
32864	The treatment for placenta previa is dependent on a number of factors, such as the health of the mother, and the unborn. For little or no bleeding, home bed rest may suffice. Bed rest in the hospital, a blood transfusion, and other medications (to prevent premature birth), may be necessary if the placenta previa causes severe bleeding. For profuse bleeding, an emergency C-section, may be needed.
32865	Pregnant women must maintain a balanced diet, taking folic acid, regular sleep and avoiding smoking or drinking alcohol. The amount of lost blood and status of the fetus determine the type of treatment. The fetus and mother may be monitored in the hospital for any change in condition, if both are not in immediate danger and if the fetus is less than 36 weeks old. However, immediately delivery is done if the fetus is already mature or in immediate danger together with the mother. Normal delivery is preferred over caesarian delivery unless the fetus is in danger.
32866	Streptomycin and gentamicin are the most effective drugs against plague. There are other alternatives including intravenous doxycycline (Vibramycin), ciprofloxacin (Cipro) and chloramphenicol (Chloromycetin). Treatment with preventive, oral antibiotics for seven days after direct exposure to another person with pneumonic plague.
32867	Night splints the doctor may recommend wearing a splint fitted to your calf and foot while you sleep. Orthotics the doctor may prescribe off-the-shelf or custom-fitted arch supports (orthotics) to help distribute pressure to your feet more evenly. Physical therapy could instruct the patient series of exercises to stretch the plantar fascia and Achilles tendon and to strengthen lower leg muscles, which stabilize your ankle and heel.
32868	Among the common treatments for this condition are wart medications, like salicylic acid, cantharidin, cryotheraphy, and duct tape. For serious cases of plantar warts, surgery and immunotherapy are among the treatment options.
32869	Low platelet counts are not usually corrected by transfusion unless the patient is bleeding or the count is below normal. Oral agents or intravenous agents are often used to alter or suppress platelet function.
32870	This disease is not easily detectible; the cancer is usually in its advanced stage when discovered. Cancer treatments are used like chemotherapy. surgery to remove cancer infected organ like the lung is considered a last resort.
32871	Doctors treat pleural effusion depending on the cause. They may recommend therapeutic aspiration, which may be sufficient. An intercostals drain may be inserted for larger effusions. Chemical or surgical pleurodesis may be required in repeated effusions. During these procedures, two pleural surfaces are attached to each other to avoid the accumulation of fluid between them.
32872	Pleural mesothelioma treatment options include surgery (to remove the cancer, to decrease the fluid buildup, or to remove the tissue around the lung or a lung itself and the surrounding tissue), radiation therapy, chemotherapy, or a combination of the three.
32873	For the treatment of pleurisy, the condition causing the same must be determined and treated. For instance, if pleurisy is caused by a bacterial infection, like pneumonia, an antibiotic may be used as a cure. Also, over-the-counter, or prescription NSAIDs may help alleviate some symptoms of pleurisy. A large buildup of fluid caused by pleurisy may require hospitalization so that the fluid may be drained through a tube inserted in the chest.
32875	Non-severe cases do not need surgery. A simple anti-inflammatory medication like ibuprofen and aspirin can be used to reduce inflammation. Avoid exercises like cycling or using the stair master. Ice packs may also bring short relief. For severe cases, surgery may be needed to remove the irritated plica.
32876	Treatment is focused in the patient's iron-deficiency anemia to improve dysphagia and pain. Patients need to receive iron supplementation in their diet. Thus, good nutrition combined with adequate iron intake is recommended to also prevent the disorder. Dilation of the web upper endoscopy to allow normal swallowing and passage of food may cause perforation of the esophagus. It may be one of the factors that develop squamous cell carcinoma of the esophagus.
32878	Patients are treated with antipneumocystic medication combined with concomitant steroids to avoid inflammation. If steroids are not used, symptoms will become sever after beginning treatment. However, some patients may develop allergies due to the medications. Most treatment is for a a period of 21 days. Pentamidine rarely used due to its high frequency of side effects such as acute pancreatitis, renal failure, hepatotoxicity, leukopenia, rash, fever, and hypoglycaemia.
32879	Patients are treated with antipneumocystic medication combined with concomitant steroids to avoid inflammation. If steriods are not used, symptoms will become sever after beginning treatment. However, some patients may develop allergies due to the medications. Most treatment is for a a period of 21 days. Pentamidine rarely used due to its high frequency of side effects such as acute pancreatitis, renal failure, hepatotoxicity, leukopenia, rash, fever, and hypoglycaemia.
32880	Treatment of eosinophilic pneumonia is effective if its cause is treated. Symptoms of acute and chronic eosinophilic pneumonia on the other hand, are rapidly treated with corticosteroids. Patients may have difficulty breathing, thus may need breathing support to live through the use of a bilevel positive airway pressure machine or a breathing tube and ventilator.
32881	The disease has no cure and patients do not have a chance of recovery. However, their symptoms may be alleviated by avoiding exposure to other particles that damage the lungs, undergoing lung transplantation, and physiotherapy for the chest. They may also take cough suppressants or antibiotics and anti-tubercular agents to prevent the development of tuberculosis.
32882	Pneumothorax is mainly treated to relieve the pressure on the lungs to allow it to expand again and avoid its recurrence. Severity of the condition is the basis for treatment. Doctors may monitor the condition through chest x-rays, remove the air from the lungs by using an inserted needle or chest tube, or a surgical procedure called video-assisted thoracoscopy.
32883	Since POEMS syndrome is a multisystem disease, there are various options for treatment including radiation therapy, corticosteroids, chemotherapy, bone marrow transplant, hormone replacement therapy, and physical therapy. Treatment is based on the patient's needs and health issues.
32884	There is no exact treatment yet for the disease.
32885	As of this time, there are no oral medications or topical treatments that can be used to improve poikiloderma of Civatte. Physicians just prescribes some measures to protect the patients from the sun to avoid the condition from getting worst. In some cases though, the use of some types of laser therapy are found to have made improvements on the appearance of Poikiloderma of civatte.
32886	The symptoms of poison ivy rash may be alleviated through self-care methods, and over-the-counter medications. For serious cases of poison ivy rash, an oral corticosteroid, such as prednisone, may be prescribed.
32887	Poland syndrome is usually treated by reconstructive surgery. Bioengineered tissue may also be implanted to give the affected part a normal appearance. Male patients as young as 13 years old may undergo reconstructive surgery. While reconstructive surgery for female patients is postponed to await the complete breast development on the unaffected side. In the case of missing areola and nipple, therapeutic tattooing is also used.
32888	Poliomyelitis can only be prevented through good hygiene, handwashing, and immunization against poliovirus. Treatment is based on the patient's medical history, age, extent of the disease, and tolerance for specific medications, procedures or therapies. Treatment is only to improve the patient's comfort, speedy recovery, and prevention of complications. Patients may be given analgesics or advised with bed rest until fever is reduced.
32889	The best treatment is still prevention. Avoid the allergens by staying home or minimizing trips outside during the allergy seasons. Just in case, medication, like antihistamines and Glucocorticoids, are also available depending on the type and severity of the allergy. Other treatments include: topical therapy for localized treatments, steroid nasal sprays, decongestants, cromoglicate as eyedrops, herbal treatments, allergy homeopathy, and acupuncture. Allergy shots are also available but should be seen as a last resort.
32890	At present, there is no cure for polyarteritis nodosa. It must be treated early to decrease the inflammation of the arteries by suppressing the immune system. Medications used for treatment include high-dose intravenous and oral cortisone medications and immunosuppressive drugs. Antiviral medications are primarily used as treatments for patients with hepatitis B. If left untreated, polyarteritis nodosa can be fatal.
32891	Patients are advised to sleep on firm mattresses and use a flat pillow in order to alleviate pain, stiffness, and swelling of joints. Treatment is also for slowing the damage of joints and reduces the possibility of the patient's disability in the future.
32892	Patients are typically treated with medicines to suppress the immune system. However, it often has side effects resulting in the increase the risk of other infections.
32893	There is no cure for polycystic kidney disease, but treatment is available to provide temporary relief and extend lives. Such treatment may be the use of over-the-counter pain medications, antibiotics, or surgery to remove the cysts. Kidney functions are replaced through dialysis or kidney transplantation. Families at risk of having the disease may also undergo genetic counseling.
32894	Treatment is based on the patient's goals, which may be to lower insulin levels; restore fertility; treat hirsutism or acne; restore regular menstruation; or prevent endometrial hyperplasia and endometrial cancer. Reduction of weight or insulin resistance addresses the underlying cause of the syndrome.
32895	Phlebotomy is the mainstay treatment of this disease. For more severe cases transformation to acute leukemia, but this is rare.
32896	There is no cure for polycythemia vera. However, there are various treatments to control the symptoms and decrease complication risks. Such treatments include Bloodletting or phlebotomy often combined with other therapies; prescription of low dose aspirin to reduce the risk thrombotic complications; chemotherapy, which is used sparingly; interferon injections; or bone marrow transplants, which is done only in rare cases.
32897	Some individuals may opt for surgical removal of their extra fingers or toes. Extra digits that are not fully developed can be removed by tying it with a tight string in its stalk, which can cause the digit to fall off in due time.
32898	Because of its hereditary nature, there may be no cure. However, the symptoms of this deficiency can be managed with medication. The challenge with this disease is its detection and the anticipation of its manifestations.
32899	Polymorphous light eruption treatment usually isn't necessary because the rash typically resolves on its own in seven to 10 days. To lower the reaction and prevent future episodes, practice sun protection measures: Limit time spent in the sunlight, use sunscreen and wear protective clothing. Self-care measures, like using a nonprescription anti-inflammatory cream, may help soothe your skin and reduce itching and discomfort.
32900	Polymorphous low-grade adenocarcinoma is not always a low-grade lesion. Some tumors especially those with a papillary cystic growth pattern may require a more aggressive treatment.
32901	Patients with mild polymyalgia rheumatica are prescribed with anti-inflammatory medicine such as aspirin or ibuprofen. Patients who experience extreme pain and discomfort are prescribed with steroids. Medical treatment is done as long as needed. To increase chances of recovery, patients also exercise and eat healthy food in conjunction with their medical treatment. The condition usually disappears on its own after a year or more but the medications and self-care measures can provide relief from symptoms.
32902	Polymyositis is initially treated with high doses of corticosteroids to decrease the inflammation in the muscles. The medication may be administered for a number of years based the doctor's findings in relation to symptoms, examination, and muscle enzyme blood test. Physical therapy, as an essential part of the treatment, is customized according to a patient's condition. Early treatment can improve the patient's condition.
32903	Patients are advised with bed rest and undergo massage or physiotherapy. Polyneuritis is also treated similarly with neuralgia.
32904	In 2005, a teenager underwent an emergency procedure during which the doctors surgically removed an abnormal growth of bone from her face. The bone was was 16 ounds. It was followed by a series of operations that has improved the child's face to a more normal proportion.
32906	The most common treatment for polyps is removal through endoscopy. For hyperplastic polyps and adenomas caused by gastritis (H. pylori bacteria), antibiotics may be prescribed.
32907	Small polyps generally need no treatment. However, uterine polyps may be treated through hormonal medications like progestins and agonists, which may help shrink the polyp. Surgical removal is another treatment option for uterine polyps. For serious cases of uterine polyps, as when the growth contains cancerous cells, hysterectomy would be required.
32908	Some patients benefit from physical and occupational therapies. Others alter their diet, which may temporarily improve their conditio, but does not cure the disease. Families at risk of having the disease may undergo genetic counseling to gain with regards to the risk in future pregnancies. Complications due to the disease are treated symptomatically.
32909	The treatment options for pompholyx include: high-potency corticosteroid creams, like clobetasol propionate; wet or cold compresses, which may help alleviate itching and minimize blisters; anti-itching medications called antihistamines, such as diphenhydramine or loratadine; and psoralen plus ultraviolet A (PUVA).
32910	There is no particular treatment for Pontiac fever.
32911	Symptoms of Pontiac fever typically last for two to five only, at which time it clears up spontaneously without a need for any form of treatment.
32912	There is no known treatment which can correct inherited color vision deficiencies. If it is found to be associated with other eye diseases, the treatment of such eye disease may help improve the color vision.
32913	Usually, no treatment is required for popliteal cyst. Instead, physicians determine and treat its underlying cause. However, if the cyst is large and painful, it may be treated through corticosteroid medication, physical therapy, and fluid drainage through needle aspiration.
32916	Patients undergo physical therapy, a shunt for hydrocephalus, and take medication for seizure disorders.
32917	Each form of porphyria is treated differently. Medications may be prescribed to relieve the symptoms. Patients with severe attacks need to be hospitalized.
32918	Being a chronic condition, PCT familial can be treated best with proper management. Individuals suffering from PCT are strongly advised to avoid alcoholic beverages, iron supplements, excess exposure to sunlight, chlorinated cyclic hydrocarbons and estrogen.
32919	Being a chornic condition, PCT familial can be treated best with proper management. Individuals suffering from PCT are strongly advised to avoid alcoholic beverages, iron supplements, excess exposure to sunlight, chlorinated cyclic hydrocarbons and estrogen.
32920	Proper management is essential in treating TYPE I PCT. Avoidance of avoid alcoholic beverages, iron supplements, excess exposure to sunlight, chlorinated cyclic hydrocarbons and estrogen are strongly advised.
32921	AIP sufferers are advised to have a high-carbohydrate diet because glucose can aid in recovery during attacks. If a particular substance is discovered to be causing attacks then that substance must be avoided. In instances where pain is severe, opiates are recommended to make condition tolerable. Nausea can be treated with drugs as well as hot water baths. The patient though must be be cautious of being burned or falling in the shower or bath.
32922	Patients with portal hypertension are often prescribed with non-selective beta blockers once the condition have been diagnosed. Nitrate may be added to the beta blocker for individuals who have already had variceal bleeding. Intravenous terlipressin is often administered to individuals with acute portal hypertension to decrease portal pressure. Sometimes, surgical or percutaneous interventions may be necessary. Liver transplant is the most definitive treatment for portal hypertension.
32923	Portal vein thrombosis is treated with shunts, bypass surgery, anticoagulants and transplants.
32923	Portal vein thrombosis is treated with shunts, bypass surgery, anticoagulants and transplants.
32924	Fatigue episodes experienced by PPS sufferers are treated by the careful management of energy expenditure. In some cases, the use of leg braces and other orthotics may be necessary. In more severe cases, the sue of wheelchairs is suggested.
32925	Psychotherapy and medications are the two most commonly used modes of treatment for PTSD sufferers. Usually, these two modes of treatments are combined for greater effectiveness.
32926	There is no specific treatment for post-concussion syndrome; it is the symptoms that are treated instead, for instance, oral medications for tension headaches, and rehabilitation for symptoms relative to memory.
32927	For minor relief, fluids, particularly hot water, can help. Other treatments may include antibiotic, nasal irrigation or minor surgery. Other treatments for the disorder caused by allergies may also be used like antihistamines and decongestants for common effects. Steroids may also be prescribed for short-term use.
32928	There is no known treatment to post-polio syndrome. However, there are treatments prescribed for the purpose of managing its symptoms. Among which are medications, which include aspirin and other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, occupational therapy, sleep apnea treatment, and speech therapy.
32929	Antiepileptic drugs are often given to people with PTE to prevent seizures. Surgery is another options if ediocation proves to be inadequate in treating PTE. Most PTE patients are monitored closely with particular focus to their neuropsycholoical and neurological functions.
32930	To treat this stress disorder is by adequate moral support from family and friends; the US Government meanwhile holds activities in commemoration of the Vietnam War in order to help the veterans who are suffering from this disorder.
32931	Posterior urethral valve has three known treatments: Vesicostomy and then valve ablation where a stoma or hole is made in the urinary bladder, also known as high diversion, followed by closure of the stoma and valve abalation, pyelostomy and then valve ablation where a stoma is made in the pelvis of the kidney, also known as high diversion, followed by closure of the stoma and valve abalation and primary valve ablation where the valves through the urethra are removed.
32932	Glucocorticoid steroids, given orally or as an eye drop, is the typical treatment for uveitis. Topical cycloplegics may also be used. The injection of PSTTA is given in some cases to reduce swelling of the eye. In more aggressive cases, antimetabolite medications are used.
32933	Postpartum depression treatment depends largely on the type of depression and severity. Support groups, marriage counseling, psychological help and medications could help reduce depression symptoms. If symptoms don't go away after two weeks, it is best to seek advice from your healthcare provider.
32934	Depending on the cause of the postpartum hemorrhage, treatment may include: medication or manual massage to stimulate contractions, removal of placental pieces that remain in the uterus, examination of the uterus and other pelvic tissues, tying-off of bleeding blood vessels, laparotomy to find the cause of the bleeding, or hysterectomy as a last resort. It is very important to replace lost blood and fluids when treating postpartum hemorrhage.
32935	Unlike postpartum depression that can be treated through support groups and counseling, postpartum psychosis requires immediate hospitalization. Once safety is ensured in the medical facility, treatment usually starts with hormone therapy and anti-depressants. Other treatments may include antipsychotic medications, lithium (mood stabilizer) and electroconvulsive therapy, which reduce depression symptoms by applying electrical current to the brain.
32936	Postural hypotension is treated with medications. Lifestyle changes may also be necessary to avoid occurrence of the condition.
32937	The first thing done to hypokalemia patients is the removal of the cause. Treatment also depends on severity. Supplementation with potassium chloride is usually given to patients with hypokalemia.
32938	There is no specific treatment yet for the disorder.
32940	There is no known cure for PWS.
32941	There is no known cure for this age-related loss of hearing. Treatment is primary focused on providing some form of functional improvement such as hearing aids, which can amply supply amplification. Developing certain skills such as lip reading as well as the use of visual cues may help in the regular communication process.
32943	There is no known cure for preeclampsia. Delivery of the placenta through Caesarian section or abortion may be necessary.
32944	There is no known cure for pregnancy toxemia /hypertension. Delivery of the placenta through Caesarian section or abortion may be necessary.
32947	People with premature ventricular contractions and a normal heart usually do not need treatment. If frequent and bothersome symptoms occur, the individual is treated to alleviate the symptoms. However, if there is an underlying heart disease that may lead to serious rhythm problems, triggers should be avoided or medications taken.
32948	Three approaches in the treatment plan for premenstrual dysphoric disorder include one or combination of the following: medication such as antidepressant, anti-anxiety medications, analgesics, hormones, and diuretics; psychobehavioral therapies such as exercise programs, and psychotherapies including cognitive-behavioral therapy, coping skills training, and relaxation; and nutritional approaches such as diet modification, vitamins and mineral preparations.
32949	Healthy lifestyle - Avoid caffeine, sugar and sodium intake. Eat foods with fiber and proper rest and sleep. Proper supplement of calcium and Vitamin E. Medical drugs - SSRI, fluoxetine (20-60 mg/d dose), sertraline, clomipramine, paroxetine, nefadozone and fluvoxamine. Hormonal contraception - a combination of oral contraceptives and contraceptive patch. Diuretics - to take care of water retention. Non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs Evening Primrose oil
32950	If presbycusis is caused by earwax blockage, treatment requires removal of ear wax through loosening the wax by means of baby oil, mineral oil, and glycerin and squirting warm water by means of a bulb syringe. The doctor should be done carrying out the procedure. Another method requires the use of curette to scoop out the wax. Doctor may use a suction machine to suck out the loosened ear wax. Gradual hearing loss caused by damage to the inner ear will benefit from using hearing aids. Severe cases of presbycusis may only be treated surgically by means of cochlear implants.
32951	The condition is treated by compensating an individual's inability to focus on nearby objects. The doctor may recommend corrective lenses, refractive surgery, or lens implants.
32952	The patient should seek medical advice immediately. The therapy used for this condition is to aspirate blood from the corpus cavernosum with local anaesthetic. In cases the therapy did not work intra-cavernosal injections of phenylephrine are used which is performed by a trained urologist. Phenylephrine can cause hypertension, bradycardia, arrhythmia and tachycardia so a constant hemodyanmic monitoring is needed. If the therapy and intra-cavernosal injections are still not sufficient surgical shunts are done in this case. After distal shunts, which are the first step, it is followed by more proximal shunts.
32953	The condition usually heals on its own. However, severe forms may need topical treatments such as calamine lotion to soothe itching, anhydrous lanolin to prevent duct blockage and stop new lesions from forming, topical steroids, and use of oral vitamin C supplements to relieve heat rash. However, cooling the skin and reducing or preventing it from sweating is the most effective way to relieve the symptoms.
32954	Lung washing is done when patient is resting comfortably under a general anesthesia. For cases of protein-rich fluid blocking the alveoli of the lungs, bronchoscopy can be carried out by washing this protein fluid with salt solution. Other helpful approaches in the treatment include oxygen therapy, breathing devices like ventilator, and medicines that can invigorate functioning of the respiratory system.
32955	Treatment is usually based on the cause of the absence of menstrual flow. For example, congenital causes like birth defects include medications, surgery or a combination of both approaches. Pituitary tumor causing primary amenorrhea is often treated by means of surgical removal of the tumor, medication with a drug called bromocriptine. In cases, when other treatments cannot bring favorable results, radiation therapy may help eliminate the tumor causing absence of menstrual flow.
32956	Treatment is aimed at relieving the effects of the symptoms or the symptom itself and delaying the progression of the disease because there is no definite treatment that can cure primary biliary cirrhosis. Liver transplant may also be an option if medications are not working.
32957	Treatment is aimed at maintaining good condition and independence to control complications and improve the lifestyle of the individual suffering from primary ciliary dyskinesia. Breathing techniques can help protect the lungs against the effects of inflammation and infection. Antibiotics can help fight bacterial inflammations. Air pipe widener and mucus dilutors can help improve breathing.
32958	Treatment of primary hyperoxaluria is aimed at preventing the accumulation of calcium oxalate through medications like pyridoxine that can reduce the oxalate production in the liver, high fluid intake, and dietary modifications.
32959	Surgery aimed to remove the glands containing adenoma is usually the best treatment option. Estrogen replacement therapy is often carried out for postmenopausal women.
32960	Affected individuals are prevented through the use of antibiotics, but if the condition does not respond to treatment, hospitalization and antibiotics administered intravenously may be necessary. Some medications such as ibuprofen, decongestants, and expectorants, are also used to relieve symptoms caused by the infections. Other individuals may undergo therapies to increase their such as immunoglobulin therapy, gamma interferon therapy, and treatment with adenosine deaminase. Bone marrow transplantation and gene therapy may also be undergone by patients to cure their primary immunodeficiency.
32961	There is no treatment that can cure, prevent, stop, or set back primary lateral sclerosis. Treatment is usually aimed at relieving the symptoms including medications to lessen uncontrolled muscle spasms; physical therapy and essential exercise routines to preserve and encourage flexibility and strength; improve function by means of assistive devices and other modalities used in physical therapy.
32962	The condition is treated based on a patient's estrogen deficiency such as estrogen therapy.
32963	There is no cure for primary polycythemia. However, there are various treatments to control the symptoms and decrease complication risks. Such treatments include Bloodletting or phlebotomy often combined with other therapies; prescription of low dose aspirin to reduce the risk thrombotic complications; chemotherapy, which is used sparingly; interferon injections; or bone marrow transplants, which is done only in rare cases.
32964	There are no medications proven to effectively treat primary progressive aphasia. Language therapy can help in improving deteriorating language skills.
32965	There are medications used to relieve the symptoms of primary pulmonary hypertension including vasodilators to stimulate dilation of blood vessels in the lungs in the hope to reduce blood pressure in the blood vessels. Anticoagulants are also used as part of the symptom management to decrease incidence of blood clotting in the lungs. Severe cases may require lung transplantation or lung-heart transplantation, whichever is appropriate for the condition.
32966	Treatment includes medications like Rifampin to diminish itching; antibiotics to control infection; Ursodiol given orally to restore and replenish other bile acids in the body to delay the progression of the disease. For patients diagnosed with advance cirrhosis, treatment usually requires liver transplantation. Surgery is also required for patients who have developed dominant strictures in the extrahepatic bile ducts.
32968	Nitrates and calcium channel blocker are typically used in the treatment of Prinzmetal's variant angina.
32969	Processing disorders cannot be cured. However, patients undergo occupational therapy and other alternative methods to improve the condition.
32970	Prothrombin complex concentrates are used to treat proconvertin deficiency, congenital. Fresh frozen plasma can also be used as part of the treatment plan for patients with proconvertin deficiency, congenital. Bleeding episodes of patients with this disorder can be treated with a recombinant factor VIIa product of Novo Nordisk named Novoseven.
32971	Since there is no treatment for proctalgia, symptoms are treated to ease the patient's discomfort. Traditional remedies have ranged from warm baths, warm to hot enemas, relaxation techniques, gentle massage of the anus, and various medications. Keeping hydrated and having a high fiber diet may help reduce the frequency of these painful episodes. Muscle relaxants like diazepam may also be used. To relax the muscles, electrical stimulations may also be used, and epidural nerve blocks as well.
32972	Treatment of proctitis is usually based on the cause of the disease. For example, infectious proctitis can be treated with antibiotics or antiviral medications.
32973	There is no treatment available to cure progeria. Symptomatic treatment includes low-dose aspirin taken daily to prevent heart attacks and stroke, high-calorie diet and supplement to guarantee proper nutrition, and primary tooth extraction to avoid overcrowding and formation of second row of teeth.
32975	It is a very destructive disorder that has no known cure. The disease may respond to treatment appropriate in patients with AIDS who are taking anti-HIV medications. There have been some agents that were thought to be relevant in the treatment of progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy including cytarabine, a highly toxic drug used in the treatment of cancer; however there is still no significant basis that these agents are effective for treating PML.
32976	At present, there is still no specific treatment to heal damage to the nerve. Supportive care is managed with the help of physio and respiratory drainage.
32977	Medications used in the treatment of Parkinson's disease and other antidepressants like imipramine can help control the symptoms that are manifested by the person with progressive Supranuclear palsy because there is no specific treatment effective to cure this disorder. Botox can help improve eyelid spasms that are common to occur with the disorder. Visual aids like eyeglasses with bifocal lenses can be helpful to assist when looking down. A speech therapist can teach swallowing techniques to lessen difficulty in speaking and swallowing.
32978	Doctors often are able to effectively treat prolactinoma with medications to restore your prolactin level to normal. An option to treat prolactinoma is to remove the pituitary tumor through surgery.
32979	A mild and moderate condition are treated throughself-care measures or nonsurgical treatments. Severe cases are treated through surgery, which keeps the the vagina and other pelvic organs in their proper positions. Other patients undergo a pessary, in which a plastic or rubber ring is inserted in the vagina to hold the bladder in its proper position. Others undergo estrogen therapy.
32980	A mild uterine prolapse does not usually requiretreatment. Otherwise, patients may opt to use a supportive device or undergo surgery.
32981	There is no efficient and effective treatment available to cure prolidase deficiency. Treatment is usually symptomatic and is very much focused on treating the skin ulcers manganese (cofactor of prolidase) oral ascorbate, and local application of ointments containing L-proline or glycine.
32984	At the moment there is no direct cure though in some cases speech therapy and occupational therapy can help improve this condition.
32985	Active surveillance and watchful waiting Radiation therapy Hormonal Therapy Surgery Cryosurgey Palliative care High Intensity Focused Ultrasound (HIFU)
32986	External beam radiation therapy destroys cancerous cells with the use of high-powered X-rays. Brachytherapy or the use of radioactive seed implants are used in men with small and lower-grade cancer. Hormone therapy attempts to stop the body from producing testosterone, which encourages cancer cell proliferation. Radical prostatectomy is the surgical removal of the prostate and used to treat cancer limited to the prostate gland.
32987	The condition is treated depending on its severity. Treatment may include medications, surgery, or nonsurgical therapies.
32988	Antibiotics and antispasmodic medications are given to treat the disease. Drugs that aim to relax the prostate gland are also used.
32989	Antibiotics are used to treat the infection while pain relievers can be helpful in lessening the pain and discomfort.
32990	Because this disorder is congenital, or inborn, there is no treatment available.
32991	Treatment with anticoagulants is recommended for medical conditions at greater risks of forming blood clots in order to reduce the clotting ability of the blood so as to minimize the chances of dangerous blood clots to form in the blood vessels.
32992	Warfarin is often used for individuals with Protein S deficiency in order to avoid having another blood clot. Warfarin cannot actually remove or eliminate the blood clot but it can prevent the blood clot from getting larger; therefore preventing thrombosis. In some cases, heparin is taken first before warfarin because in rare cases warfarin can result to development of serious skin wounds and short-lived bleeding.
32993	Treatment is aimed at providing sufficient nutrition to restore normal body composition and treat the condition that may have caused the nutritional deficit. Infections can be treated by means of antibiotics. In cases where muscles have been greatly affected by the malnutrition, physical therapy may be helpful in rehabilitation and restoration of strength and function.
32994	Becuase Proteinuria has been linked as a symptom for cardiovascular diseases, it is more likely to treat the causant disease like diabetes and hypertension. It is then done first by controlling the blood glucose level and and maintaining healthy blood pressure. The doctor may also prescribe a medicine to protect the kidneys like angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors. Taking ACE inhibitor or ARB are also helpful for patients with high blood pressure and proteinuria.
32995	There is no treatment available that can cure proteus syndrome; treatment is based on the management of the consequences of the syndrome like surgical removal of existing tumors.
32997	Treatment of the prune belly syndrome depends on how severe the symptoms last. Vesicotomy is one option to allow the bladder to drain, and it is done by making a hole in the abdomen. In other cases, surgical remodeling is done to the urinary tract. Many patients however experience renal failure.
32998	The skin disorder is difficult to cure, and therapies may include steroids, cryosurgery, UVB light and thalidomide. Antibiotics are proven to be effective in treating patients who also have other infections.
32999	The condition is treated by identifying and treating the underlying cause. Treatments could include medications, wet dressings, and light therapy. An individual may also use anti-itch products and cool baths to reduce itching and soothe inflamed skin.
33000	The condition depending on its cause, which may include self-care measures, changes to your diet, or treatment of infections. In rare cases, the patient may undergo surgery to correct an underlying problem. The doctor may also prescribe over-the-counter medication to reduce inflammation and pain.
33003	This condition can be easily treated by getting rid of the ingrown hair. The extrafollicular hairs can be easily removed by pulling it under the skin or removed entirely with the use of tweezers. In cases of severe conditions the help of a dermatologist is recommended. Other treatments:  Topical antibiotics like Bactroban, oral antibiotics  Topical antibiotic solution or Retin-A prescribed by your physician  Use polyester skin cleansing pad twice a day  Laser hair removal  Benzoyl peroxide and antibiotics like erythromycin  Injectable corticosteroids  Polyester skin-cleansing
33004	Pseudogout is cured by intra-articular corticosteroid injection, high-dose colchicine, and non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs. NSAIDs are administered in higher doses to prevent attacks of chondrocalinosis.
33008	Doctors recommend stopping the antibiotic associated with the patient's condition. However, it may not be enough to eradicate the condition. Thus, the doctor may recommend certain medication, other than the antibiotics associated with the patient's illness. Surgery may also be an option when the antibiotic treatment fails to the inflammation and ease the symptoms
33010	Medications for pseudomotor cerebri include acetazolamide, but it can give off side effects such as an upset stomach, tingling of toes and fingers, fatigue, and kidney stones. Weight loss procedures are also recommended to obese patients.
33011	Treatment for pseudomyxoma peritonei include intraperitoneal hyperthermic chemotherapy. In more severe cases, cytoreductive surgery can be performed to remove the peritoneum. Affected organs such as the ovaries, uterus and parts of the large intestine have be to removed as well to prevent the spread of the disease. Oral chemotherapies are also given to moderate cases.
33012	No specific treatment is needed to cure pseudopapilledema. The disease eventually subsides as the patient recovers from his major eye disease.
33013	Management of PPSH often begins with sex assignment, which proves to be difficult since the genitalia do not resemble either sex. Infants in this condition are usually raised female. They are also offered surgical reconstruction, or testosterone treatment.
33014	Persons with the disorder often lead normal lives, but antibiotics and vitamin A and E supplements should be administered to help reduce the effects of pseudoxanthoma elasticum.
33015	Psittacosis can be a very deadly disease if not treated immediately. Patients with the disease are treated with specific drugs; it is responsive to tetracycline but resistant to penicillin.
33016	There is no exact way to cure psoriasis, and the sores my recur anytime. Medications are administered to help reduce the effects of the disease, since the immune system is affected by psoriasis. However, patients deal more with the emotional turmoil brought about by the disease, since the sores cause immediate embarrassments towards the rest of the society.
33017	Treatment for psoriatic arthritis is the same as rheumatoid arthritis. NSAIDs are given to help reduce the inflammation of the disease, and joint injections are administered to cure a few affected joints. For advanced stages of psoriatic arthritis, recombinant DNA technology is used to prevent further joint destruction.
33018	Corticosteroids have been proven to be an affective treatment to psoriatic rheumatism as well as psoriatic arthritis. Injections are given to affected joints. Cyclosporine is also given to patients with the disease, but it can cause side effects such as hypertension.
33019	Since this condition can be life-threatening, patients with psychogenic polydipsia should undergo weight-water protocol to properly manage their weight. There are also times that they are put into room restriction and physical restraint to prevent them from consuming too much water.
33021	Psychosis is treated with low doses of anti-psychotic drugs combined with therapy sessions. Moral support coming from family and friends are also helpful. In severe cases, patients with psychosis are admitted to the hospital for further treatment.
33022	The disease can be treated by various methods, including ?-irradiation, amniotic membrane transplant, and conjunctival auto-grafting. It doesn't necessarily require surgery unless the growth has conquered the pupil causing obstructed vision.
33023	Prevent dehydration by replacing fluids and electrolytes lost through vomiting and diarrhea. Doctors may give fluids intravenously. In serious cases, medications may be given to stop abdominal cramping and vomiting. Antibiotics are used to treat severe bacterial food poisonings.
33024	Doctors must first determine the cause of ptosis before treated. For acquired ptosis, doctors treat the disease first before reconstructing the eyelids. In cases such as congenital ptosis, surgery is performed to fix the affected eyelid.
33025	Eliminating pubic crabs is by proper hygiene and disinfectant pubic wash. Sheets and blankets also have to be properly washed or kept in airtight plastic bags for two weeks to prevent breeding of eggs.
33026	Pubic lice can be treated by non-prescription medications, as well as stronger products given by the doctors. Consistent treatment should be done and infected clothes and beddings should be machine washed, ironed or dry-cleaned. Items meanwhile that can't be cleaned have to be packed and sealed in plastic bags for at least 2 weeks.
33027	The disease can easily be treated with antibiotics and improved hygiene.
33028	The disease is treated by performing a whole-lung lavage procedure, where sterile fluid is instilled into the lungs to bring out the surfactants. This has been effective in treating the disease. Lung transplant is also performed in severe cases.
33029	Treatment for Pulmonary Anthrax may include any or a combination of the following medications: antibiotics, ciprofloxacin (Cipro), Doxycycline, penicillin, or multiple antibiotics. The doctor may also change treatment plan depending on the progression of the disease.
33030	Face mask or tiny plastic tubes are used when providing oxygen to a patient. Breathing tubes may also be placed in the windpipe or trachea. In some cases, a breathing machine called ventilator may be needed. It is important to have the cause of edema identified and treated. The heart must be treated and stabilized if a heart attack caused the condition. Furomeside (Lasix), a diuretic, may be administered to aid in making the excess water pass through the urine. Other medications such as those that can strengthen the heart or relieve pressure may also be given.
33031	Aspirin or ibuprofen are medications recommended for headache. Narcotics are not advised to be taken by the patient since they can affect respiratory functions and other symptoms. Patients are thus brought to lower descents and to receive first aid.
33032	In severe cases of pulmonary embolism or life-threatening pulmonary embolism, immediately hospitalization and treatment are necessary. Definitive treatment may consist of dissolving the clot with thrombolytic therapy. To allow the body to re-absorb the existing clots faster, anticoagulant therapy is often performed to prevent the formation of more clots. Streptokinase, urokinase, or t-PA are among the commonly used clot-dissolving medication (thrombolytic therapy). In anti-coagulation therapy or preventing clot, the use of IVs such as heparin and warfarin for the oral medication are usually recommended. An inferior vena cava filter (IVC filter) may be needed for patients who cannot tolerate anticoagulation therapy. And IVC filter is placed in the main central vein in the abdomen, allowing it to block large clots from traveling into the pulmonary vessels. Maintaining oxygen concentrations may require oxygen therapy. For patients at great risk for recurrent embolism, surgery is sometimes required.
33034	Treatment for this disease depends on its underlying cause and supportive measure. Medication can also be used to treat pulmonary heart disease with the use of Diltiazem hydrochloride, Felodipine, Glyceryl trinitrate, Isosorbide mononitrate, Nifedipine, or Amlodipine besylate. Oxyen therapy may also be needed to slow the progression of the disorder. This disease can also be treated like congestive heart failure with the use of calcium channel blockers (vasodilators) to reduce the pressure of the pulmonary circulation.
33035	Treatment of pulmonary hypertension involves medications and constant therapy. Persons with the disease must also avoid strenuous activities since these can aggravate their heart condition. Females are also advised to avoid pregnancy since it too can cause dangers to their life.
33036	This disorder is usually not serious enough to need any treatment However, its symptoms can be managed using some medications like antibiotics. Because this is a structural defect, alternative medicines may be limited. Physicians may require patients to avoid activities that will aggravate this disorder's symptoms.
33037	Treatment of the disease may be in the form of medications to remove the cystic growth. Surgical resection procedures may also required when the growth is already fully developed. Continuous exercise and therapy is also recommended to strengthen the heart and lungs.
33038	Treatment for the disease involves surgery, because the pulmonary valve has to be opened to generate blood flow to the pulmonary area. It can also be done during an open heart surgery. In severe cases, the pulmonary valve must be replaced.
33040	Treatment for the disease is usually done by gradually reducing the swelling by the use of cortisone injection. Stronger immunosuppressive drugs meanwhile are given to patients who are cortisone-resistant.
33041	Since it is considered an autoimmune disease, pure red blood cell aplasia responds to immunorepressant medication like ciclosporin.
33044	There are no known treatments for purpura simplex or bruising. Patients are advised to avoid blood thinning medication such as aspirins. It must be kept in mind that there is no evidence that these types of medications causes or worsens this disorder. Patients are also advised to be careful and avoid bruising.
33045	Treatment for Schoenlein-Henoch purpura is based on the symptoms. Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory medications are also given, while corticosteroid therapy is administered to those who experience problems in the nervous system. The disease usually resolves on its own after one week without treatment.
33046	Treatment for the disease include plasmapheresis, an exchange transfusion of the blood plasma. Additional immunosuppressive therapy in order to recover. However, when the disease is not treated, it can cause multiple organ failure.
33047	It is usually treated with some kinds of penicillin and erythromycin.
33048	Pyaemia can be treated by the use of antibiotics, hemodialysis to clean remove infected fluids, and replacement of affected body organs. Severe cases also need blood transfusion to remove the bacteria in the blood.
33049	The disease can be treated by the use of antibiotics. Mild cases of pyelonephritis can be treated with oral medication, but intravenous antibiotics are always recommended. Drugs such as fluoroquinolones, beta-lactam and nitrofurantoin are the ones commonly used for treatment.
33050	Patients with the condition typically undergo surgical procedures during which the outside layer of the thickened pyloric muscles surgeon are cut and spread apart leaving the inside lining of the pylorus intact.
33051	Topical treatment is usually prescribed to patients with PG; NSAIDs are also given to help stop the proliferation of the abscesses.
33052	Surgical operation and antibiotics are the prescribed treatment for patients with the disease.
33053	Eating food enriched with vitamin B6 as well as taking in food supplements in the form of pills.
33054	Behaviour modification Selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) Playing out the obsession in replicated environment also helps Anger management Training in aggression replacement Cognitive restructuring Psychotherapy (long-term insight-oriented)
33056	The disease can be treated via transfusion or packed red blood cells to sustain the lack of RBC in the body. Surgical operation such as splenectomy has shown to improve the condition of the patient but this is done only with severe cases.
33057	Adequate rest completely resolves pyrosis; the feeling subsides on its own without the aid of medical care.
33058	PDC is treated by correction of acidosis in the cells; however the effects brought about by the disease are no longer reversible. Patients with the disease are given cofactor supplements such as carnitine, thiamine and lipoic acid. Parents are also advised to undergo genetic counseling to correct the disorder. Ketogenic diets are also recommended to prevent further progress of the disease.
33059	Treatment for the disorder is by supplementing the pyruvate kinase enzyme on the blood. A bone marrow transplant may be required to address the need. Surgical operation such as splenectomy can also be done on severe cases, as well as blood transfusion if severe anemia has already taken place.
33060	Q fever resolves itself after a few months without treatment. Doxycycline meanwhile is administered to Q fever. Antibiotic treatments become effective when given during the first three days of the disease. Infected animals are subject to quarantine to prevent the spread of the disease.
33062	The condition cannot be reversed. But patients are treated prevent further injury and enable them to have an active and productive life within the limits of their disability. Thus , patients need urgent emergency attention and continuous care.
33064	It is advised to let this disease run its course, which may take up to 2 weeks. Antibiotics may also be prescribed for faster healing.
33065	Patients with a mild condition usually get better without treatment. Otherwise, doctors prescribe antibiotics. The type and duration in which antibiotics are taken is determined by the severity of the infection. Severe conditions takes more type to treat and may even recur, thus follow-up visits to the doctor is needed.
33066	This disease has become rare because of prevention and early medication. In many cases, a small operation may be conducted to drain the pus from the abscess. Patients may also take antibiotics as treatment. In severe cases a tonsillectomy (removal of the tonsils) may be needed.
33067	Patients are effectively treated through injection of antibiotics such as streptomycin or gentamicin into a muscle or vein. However, other patients may only be prescribed with oral antibiotics such as tetracycline and receive therapy for complications such as meningitis or pneumonia. Those who recovered from the disease usually become immune but others experience a recurrence or reinfection.
33068	Rabies can be prevented through vaccination in both humans and other animals. Treatment after the virus has been transmitted is known as P.E.P. or post-exposure prophylaxis. This has proven to be successful if administered promptly, usually within 6 days after exposure. Rinsing the wound thoroughly with soap or virucidal antiseptic can reduce the number of viral particles. In addition, exposed mucous membranes must also be washed thoroughly. Patients are treated with a dose of immunoglobulin and five doses of rabies vaccine at the bite site. The rest is introduced intramuscularly away from the region of the bite. The first vaccine dosage must be given shortly after exposure, with additional doses injected on the third, seventh, fourteenth, and twenty-eight day after the first.
33069	Treating Rabson-Mendenhall syndrome with pharmacologic human leptin may improve the condition of the fasting hyperglycemia, hyperinsulinemia, basal glucose, and glucose and insulin tolerance.
33070	Radiation exposure is a form of therapy; but to treat the effects of the exposure is quite difficult since there is no standard procedure yet to fight against radiation exposure. The best way as of now is to avoid abusive exposure to radiation.
33071	Patients are treated to prevent reduce symptoms and prevent further radioactive contamination. They may also receive treatment to damaged organs.
33073	Because there are no symptoms for radon poisoning, the best treatment is still prevention. Make sure that you check places where you are most often, like at home or at work. Since this is related to lung cancer, smoking should also be stopped.
33075	Recent studies indicate that treating Ramsay Hunt syndrome with prednisone and acyclovir shortly (within 3 days) after the onset of symptoms can prove successful. Chances of complete recovery can dramatically decrease if any form of treatment is delayed. On the other hand, current treatment methods cannot recover hearing loss.
33077	Change in eating habits: eat different small meals a day that are low in carbohydrates and liquid intake between meals. In serious cases prescribed medicines are given and even surgery is performed.
33078	Surgical intervention is often required to disconnect or remove the affected cerebral hemisphere. This procedure is known as hemispherectomy. Initially, anti-epileptic drugs may be prescribed, but pharmaceutical treatment is rarely effective in controlling the seizures. Alternative forms of treatment include the removal and reinfusion of blood plasma (a process known as plasmapheresis), administering immunoglobulin intravenously, imposing a ketogenic diet (high fat, low carbohydrate), and administering steroids.
33079	The antibiotic that is used to cure the rat-bite fever is penicillin in cases that the patient is allergic to it erythromycin or tetracyclines are used correspondingly spirillary infections and streptobacillary.
33080	Treatment for Raynaud's disease is focused on preventing or managing further episodes. General measures include avoiding environmental triggers (such as cold air and vibration), covering the extremities with warm clothing, hormone regulation, and smoking cessation. Drug treatment commonly includes calcium channel blockers to open up the blood vessels in the extremities as well as decrease the severity and frequency of the attacks. Alpha blockers are also used to counteract norepinephrine, a hormone that constricts blood vessels. Some physicians also prescribe vasodilators to help relax the blood vessels. When the disease persists, surgical intervention in the form of sympathectomy and prostaglandins infusions may be necessitated. Very rarely, amputation may be needed to control extremely severe attacks.
33081	Treatment for Razor bumps will include application of Tretinoin cream at night, application of Eflornithine cream which could reduce hair growth in the affected area, applying topical and oral antibiotics,
33082	In treating reactive arthritis, the main focal point is to identify and ultimately eliminate the underlying infectious source. If still present, such infections can be treated with the appropriate antibiotics. If the infection is no longer present, treatment is directed towards alleviating the symptoms. For patients with severe reactive symptoms, immunosuppressants, steroids, and analgesics may be recommended.
33083	Support service (psychosocial) which includes domestic or financial aid, social work and housing support. Psychotherapeutic involvement Education Monitor child's safety Creating positive interactions with caregivers
33084	Patients with reactive hypoglycemia usually do not require treatment. However, dietary changes are often advised, including eating smaller meals at short intervals throughout the day and avoiding high carbohydrate foods.
33085	The doctor restricts the patient's use of pain medication or recommends stopping the medication that is causing rebound headaches. The patient may also need treatments to alleviate withdrawal symptoms.
33086	Mild cases of rectal abscess can be managed with antibiotic medication. However, in severe cases, particularly those that are recurrent and frequent, surgical intervention may be needed to drain the abscess or pus from the infected cavity.
33087	A procedure known as colectomy, or surgical removal of the colon, is the primary mode of treatment available for treating rectal cancer. The extent of colon to be removed will depend on the severity and location of the cancer. In addition, chemotherapy and radiation therapy are also recommended, along with medications to manage symptoms.
33088	The condition is usually caused by sexually transmitted diseases. Other causes may also include inflammatory bowel diseases, non-sexually transmitted infections, or a side effect of some medical treatments such as radiation therapy or antibiotics.
33089	The condition depending on its cause, which may include self-care measures, changes to your diet, or treatment of infections. In rare cases, the patient may undergo surgery to correct an underlying problem. The doctor may also prescribe over-the-counter medication to reduce inflammation and pain.
33091	Medication can be given to avoid straining of the rectum. In more serious cases, the doctor may opt to perform either abdominal surgery or perineal surgery.
33092	Affected individuals need to change their diet and fluid intake or if the condition is severe, they may need to take medication or undergo surgery. The patient may also undergo therapies such as enemas, biofeedback, or rectopexy.
33093	The condition is treated based on its severity. If it is mild, the patient may not need any treatment but only self-care measures such as exercise to strengthen the pelvic area muscles. For a severe condition, the patient may undergo pessary or surgery
33094	If proven cancerous, rectosigmoid neoplasm may be treated by chemotherapy, radiotherapy, or surgery to remove the malignant mass. In general, treatment for rectosigmoid neoplasm depends on the stage of the cancer and the cell origin of the tumor.
33095	Treatment for rectum cancer involves surgery and/or chemotherapy and radiation therapy.
33096	Eyedrops or artificial tears are used to soothe any scratchy feeling in the eye. The medication will be absorbed within 10 to 14 days, after which there will be no further treatment.
33097	Vaccines against the rubella virus are given to make children immune to the disease.
33098	Treatment for CRPS in general consists of different medications integrated with physical and/or occupational therapy. Drugs used in treating the disorder include antidepressants, anti-inflammatories, GABA analogs, and alpha or beta adrenergic blocking compounds. Local anesthetics are initially injected and repeated when necessary. Surgical intervention may include the implantation of spinal cord stimulators in the epidural space or directly above the nerves outside the CNS. In some cases, drug pumps are implanted to directly deliver pain medication to the cerebrospinal fluid. As a last resort for severe cases (particularly in patients with imminent tissue loss, recurrent infection, edema, or ischemic necrosis), surgical, chemical, or radiofrequency sympathectomy can be used. Perhaps the most important component of treatment is physical therapy. Inactivity often aggravates the disease and intensifies the pain cycle. Therapy should be focused on helping the patient slowly transition to physical activity and movement, gradually stimulating the affected areas.
33101	Restriction or avoidance of food containing phytanic acid, like dairy, beef and lamb, fatty fish such as tuna or cod is the primary treatment for this disorder. Major cases may require some patients to undergo plasmapheresis or plasma exchange to control the phytanic acid build up.
33102	Unlike other major forms of inflammatory bowel disease (IBD), there is no known medication or surgical treatment for regional enteritis. Therefore, treatment is mostly focused on symptom management; in particular, controlling the disease and preventing potential relapse.
33103	To date, there is no specific cure for Reiter's syndrome. Treatment is often directed towards symptom relief. Short periods of bed rest and exercise to stimulate affected areas are often recommended. Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, corticosteroid injections, antibiotics, and immunosuppressive medicines are some of the medications used in treatment.
33104	Treatment for the illness can be done by treating the cause. Medications for sexually transmitted disease-causing arthritis help reduce the effects of reiters arthritis, while antibiotics are administered to salmonella infected persons.
33105	Involves mostly antibiotics such as tetracycline, doxycycline, or penicillin
33105	Antibiotics are used to treat both types of relapse fever. Some of these medications may be used: erythromycin, tetracyclines, chloramphenicol, or penicillins.
33106	Non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs are usually prescribed to treat the inflammations like ibuprofen and naproxen. Steroid, however, are usually required especially when breathing becomes hard.
33108	Medication for renal artery stenosis is focused on managing high blood pressure in patients. However, in severe cases where hypertension cannot be controlled through medication, renal artery stenosis may have to be treated invasively. Renal artery stenosis is frequently treated through endovascular methods, such as angioplasty.
33109	In most cases, small calculi will pass spontaneously. Typically, asymptomatic small calculi are expected to pass or move within 30 days. However, calculi that are greater than 6mm in size will need some form of intervention, usually surgical, to avoid further infections and complications. In some situations, immediate surgery may be necessary.
33110	In about 40% of known cases, where the cancer is restricted only in the kidneys, it can be treated successfully 90% of the time through surgery. If the cancer has spread beyond the kidneys and into other organs of the body (often into the lymph nodes), then adjunctive therapy, including cytoreductive surgery, becomes necessary.
33111	Most renal carbuncle cases almost invariably need hospitalization. Medical therapy consists primarily of antibiotics to target the infection or underlying that's causing the renal carbuncle. Another option is surgical intervention, wherein the abscess or renal carbuncle needs to be surgically drained.
33112	In advanced stages, renal cell carcinoma is notoriously resistant to such standard interventions as chemotherapy and radiation therapy. However, some cases have been known to respond to immunotherapy. Recent techniques which have some proven efficacy include sunitinib, a form of targeted cancer therapy. If renal cell carcinoma is detected early, 80% to 95% of patients may be treated successfully.
33113	Treatments for this condition may include pain relief medications, narcotic pain relief, and other medications for the treatments of the underlying causes. Patients may be required hospitalization.
33116	Initial treatment for renal osteodystrophy includes supplementing the patient's calcium and vitamin D and restricting the patient's dietary phosphate. Cinacalcet and phosphate binders such as calcium acetate, lanthanum carbonate, calcium carbonate, and sevelamer hydrochloride may also be prescribed. In severe cases, renal transplantation and constant hemodialysis may be necessitated.
33117	Patients are given antibiotics, particularly antituberculous drugs. Hospitalization may be necessary as a surgical excision can be used as an additional medical theatment.
33118	Treatment depends on the type of renal tubular acidosis present. Patients affected with Types 1 and 2 RTA are usually advised to drink a solution of sodium bicarbonate (commonly known as baking soda) daily to neutralize the acid produced from food. This form of therapy alleviates symptoms and prevents further kidney failure and bone disease. Potassium supplements and other solutions to target RTA are also prescribed. For type 4 RTA patients, the acidosis is often so mild that bicarbonates are not necessary. Elevated levels of potassium in blood can usually be controlled by restricting potassium intake, avoiding dehydration, and substituting or adjusting the dosages of certain drugs.
33119	Ergonomics, practicing good posture, and managing time in stressful working conditions can help prevent or cure the disorder. Strengthening exercises, stretches, and biofeedback training can also help relax muscle tension. Common medications used are non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs to reduce swelling, or anti-convulsant medications to reduce neuropathic pain. In some cases, orthopaedic hand braces may be required. Surgical intervention is not usually necessary, and used only as a last resort in treatment.
33120	Treatment for respiratory acidosis usually focuses on treating the underlying conditions. In chronic cases, bronchodilators or steroid drugs may be required. Some patients would need supplemental oxygen supplied through a mask or small tubes inserted into the nostrils. Infections associated with respiratory acidosis are often treated with appropriate antibiotics. Additionally, some cases require the use of a mechanical ventilation device such as a respirator.
33121	Most cases of respiratory diphtheria can be effectively treated with penicillin, before the bacterium releases its toxins into the bloodstream. In addition, an antitoxin medication can be given in combination with penicillin. In severe cases, particularly when the patient has serious breathing difficulties, a breathing tube may be inserted into the windpipe in a surgical process known as tracheostomy.
33121	Treatment of this disease depends on the outcome of a culture from the patient. The following may be given to the patient as treatment: antibiotics, antitoxins, certain kinds of erythromycin, and penicillin. It is also advised, especially for the children, to get vaccinated for this disease.
33122	CPR or cardiopulmonary resuscitation is for emergency situations. Treatment primarily focuses on treating the underlying cause of this condition. Sometimes, machine ventilation may be required.
33123	Symptoms manifest between 1 to 3 days after a cold virus is contracted. Patients can keep well hydrated and have plenty of rest. Medication may be needed to deal with they symptoms like ibuprofen for fever, throat lozenges for sore throat, cough drops for coughs, and decongestant for stuffy nose. Physicians may also prescribe antihistamines.
33124	Children who are affected in a mild manner are not given specific treatments but to treat the symptoms. In severe cases, treatment may require therapy such as oxygen therapy and sometimes mechanical ventilation. Other treatment for severe cases is the ribavirin aerosol. Some physicians have used a combination of high titers of neutralizing RSV antibody (RSV-IGIV) with immune globulin intravenous (IGIV) and ribavirin to treat patients whose immune systems are compromised.
33125	Respiratory system cancer treatment depends primarily on the location or type of cancer involved as well as its severity. The first line of defense is more commonly some form surgery, including: surgical removal of a portion the affected lung; a lobectomy of an entire lung; or a pneumonectomy. Other treatment options to be considered for respiratory system cancer are chemotherapy as well as radiotherapy.
33126	While movement provides temporary relief to affected patients, the relief is usually only temporary. Restless legs syndrome can be treated by identifying and treating any underlying disorder. Focusing treatment on the underlying condition or conditions may relieve several symptoms. Other treatment techniques used for patients with idiopathic RLS are mostly focused on alleviating symptoms.
33129	Treatment for retinal degeneration varies depending on the cause, symptoms, effects, or type of specific degeneration. Affected individuals may be required to wear a range of optical aids and use controlled illumination mechanisms. Children diagnosed with retinal degeneration should receive constant ophthalmological care and monitored regularly, especially because retinal detachments are a distinct possibility.
33130	Several treatments are available to finding and closing the hole in the detached retina using lasers and surgery. These may include: cryopexy and laser photocoagulation, scleral buckle surgery, pneumatic retinopexy and vitrectomy.
33131	To date, there is no proven medical treatment available to completely cure retinitis pigmentosa. However, the progression of the disorder can be controlled with 15000 IU of vitamin A palmitate medication. Researchers continue to seek other modes of treatment for RP. Proposed therapies include artificial retinal implants, stem cells, gene therapy, drug therapies, and nutritional supplements.
33132	Until recently, the only treatment available for retinoblastoma was to remove the affected eyeball to prevent the cancer from spreading. Today, chemotherapy is the preferred mode for unilateral retinoblastoma. In advanced cases where both eyes are involved, however, external beam radiation may be required. Most children with bilateral presentations can be treated with attempts at preservation. Medications such as tumor chemoreduction with carboplatin and the like can reduce the volume of the tumor, thus making it susceptible to local modes of therapy.
33133	To date, retinoschisis has no available medical or surgical cure. Treatment is mostly directed towards symptom relief. While glasses may help improve the afflicted patient's vision, they do not repair the damage to the nerve tissue. If detected early, retinal detachment in retinoschisis patients can be treated surgically, but surgery itself does not correct the actual splitting of the retina.
33134	If the testicle has not descended until the child reaches 14 years of age, treatment options of the condition include surgery and hormone therapy.
33135	If the condition interferes with a patient's fertility, treatment is focused on the underlying cause. If certain medications is causing retrograde ejaculation the doctor may recommend stopping or changing the condition. The condition may also be reversed through medication that are primarily used to treat other conditions, which close the bladder neck muscle during ejaculation. These medications however, may have minor or serious side effects.
33136	Retinal fibroplasia may be treated through peripheral retinal ablation, wherein the avascular retina is destroyed using a solid state laser photocoagulation device. Vitrectomy surgery and/or scleral buckling may be advised for severe cases (usually in stage 4 and 5) that progress to retinal detachment. Another therapeutic measure is the intravitreal injection of bevacizumab (Avastin), which controls the aggressive posterior retinopathy of prematurity.
33137	Treatment for retroperitoneal fibrosis is commonly based on administering glucocorticoids, followed by DMARDs. In addition, SERM tamoxifen has also some proven efficacy in research trials, although further studies are needed to determine the mechanism of its action. Immunosuppressive drugs, including cyclophosphamide, azathioprine, and tamoxifen may also be used. However, if afflicted patients exhibit severe urinary tract obstruction, surgical intervention becomes almost always necessary.
33138	To date, there is no known cure for Rett syndrome. However, recent research efforts are directed towards developing a solution with gene therapy. Current modes of treatment are focused on alleviating symptoms, including surveillance of scoliosis, monitoring long QT syndrome, management of gastrointestinal and nutritional problems, speech therapy, sleeping aids, anti-psychotic medication, and sometimes beta-blockers. Parental counseling is also offered to help parents cope with the disease.
33140	Children diagnosed with this potentially fatal syndrome need to be immediately admitted to a pediatric intensive care unit. Treatment may involve medications such as glucose to elevate low blood sugar, small amounts of insulin to increase sugar metabolism, electrolyte solutions to correct blood chemistry values, and basic solutions to manage acidity. These are often administered intravenously. To reduce the swelling and inflammation of the brain, corticosteroid drugs may be administered. In addition, diuretics such as mannitol may be helpful in facilitating fluid loss through urination, thus reducing the brain swelling. In advanced stages, Reye's syndrome may necessitate the use of a ventilator to artificially assist the patient's breathing.
33142	Treatment for Rh disease will depend on the mother's health, medical history, and state of pregnancy. In addition, certain factors such as the severity of the disease and the mother's tolerance for specific medications are also considered. Common modes of treatment include intrauterine blood transfusions to control the fetus' movements and inducing early or preterm delivery to manage further complications.
33143	Treatment for rhabdoid tumor varies according to the affected child's age, health and medical history, as well as the tumor's location, type, and size. Often, a multidisciplinary approach is employed, ranging from neurology to oncology. A standard mode of treatment is surgical removal of the malignant tumor, followed by consistent chemotherapy. In addition, radiation therapy may be done on children over 3 years of age. For younger children, focal radiation therapy may be incorporated with caution.
33144	Treatment of rhabdomyolysis usually involves intravenous fluids to preserve kidney function and treat shock. In early stages, abnormal electrolyte levels may also need correction. In cases that present with acute renal failure, dialysis is often necessitated.
33145	Chemotherapy and radiation therapy are common modes of treatment for rhabdomyosarcoma. Surgery to remove the malignant tumor has proven to be very difficult, since the offending mass is usually embedded deep within the tissue and therefore difficult to reach. However, if possible, surgery is often recommended to remove the malignancy. In cases where rhabdomyosarcoma manifests in the extremities, amputation may be necessitated to improve prognosis.
33146	In the past, embryonal rhabdomyosarcoma was almost invariably fatal and treated with radical surgery. However, a new approach in the form of multi-drug chemotherapy regimens (with or without radiation therapy) has demonstrated some proven efficacy.
33147	Doctors may give some medication to control the production of the antibodies caused by rhesus isoimmunisation.
33148	Treatment of rheumatic fever is focused on reducing the characteristic inflammation with anti-inflammatory drugs such as corticosteroids and aspirin. Patients with positive strep throat cultures should be given antibiotics. Potential side effects and other complications should also be monitored closely and treated appropriately. Steroids may help avoid further scarring of the tissue. Antibiotics, of course, are a major factor in treatment. In addition, specific treatment should be geared towards managing infections, inflammations, and potential heart problems that may develop.
33149	Medication can be given to treat this heart condition. Surgery is also available as an option by replacing the damaged valve or valves.
33151	Various treatments for rheumatoid arthritis are available. Pharmacological treatment to manage symptoms usually includes painkillers, anti-inflammatory medications, and steroids. To reverse the disease and prevent long-term damage, disease-modifying antirheumatic drugs (DMARDs) are used. In addition, non-pharmacological methods are integrated in the overall treatment, including physical therapy and occupational therapy.
33152	Patients are treated to relieve their symptoms and and prevent or delay any complications and spinal deformity. The condition is best treated early in its manifestation to avoid irreversible damage to the patient's joints. The doctor may prescribe medications such as nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, disease-modifying antirheumatic drugs, corticosteroids, and tumor necrosis factor blockers. Other patients may undergo physical therapy or surgery.
33153	Rhinitis is usually managed by the use of certain medications like antihistamine pills and sprays, leukotriene antagonists, nasal corticosteroid sprays, decongestant pills or sprays and allergen immunotherapy.
33154	The condition may be treated with medications such as nasal and oral corticosteroids, antihistamines, decongestants, cromolyn sodium, leukotriene modifiers, nasal atropine, immunotherapy, and nasal lavage.
33155	This disorder may include avoiding triggers for rosacea combined with medication to control the symptoms. However, surgery may also be considered an option particularly surgical external nasal reshaping.
33158	Treatment for the illness is by taking NSAIDs, as well as adequate rest.
33159	Riboflavin deficiency is treatable with the use of supplemental riboflavin. But the best for of treatment is prevention through ingesting food containing vitamin B2.
33160	Standard treatment for chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) will continue even if the affected patients have developed Richter syndrome. Treatment is usually a combination of chemotherapy, radiation therapy, monoclonal antibodies and potentially stem cell implantation.
33161	Treatment for the disease is by management of the symptoms.
33162	Treatment for rickets focuses on increasing the patient's dietary intake of phosphates, calcium, and of course, vitamin D. A patient is usually exposed to cod liver oil, viosterol, halibut-liver oil, and sunshine (ultraviolet light), which are all sources of vitamin D.
33166	There is currently no specific treatment for rift valley fever. Therapy of afflicted humans usually focuses on managing symptoms. Ribavirin and convalescent plasma are sometimes used as pharmacological interventions.
33167	Doctors may perform cardiac catheterization particularly right heart catheterization. This is done to measure the pressure of the heart by inserting a catheter into the vein in the right side of the heart.
33168	To date, Riley-Day syndrome has no known cure. Approximately fifty percent of afflicted individuals die by the age of 30. Most treatment modes for Riley-Day patients focus on controlling and managing symptoms. In specialized Riley-Day syndrome treatment centers, therapy is mostly symptomatic, preventative, and supportive. Because each patient experiences a variety of symptoms, the treatment plan must be tailored to each individual patient, depending on the severity of the symptoms. Typically, appropriate medications are used to control eye dryness, vomiting, and blood pressure. In addition, feeding is imperative to maintain adequate nutrition. Daily chest physiotherapy may be done to manage chronic lung disease. Protecting patients (especially children) from injury is another integral component of treatment. In addition, special drug management and constant medical care are crucial in controlling other manifestations.
33169	Ringworms can be treated with topical antifungal drugs containing miconazole, which are available without a prescription to clear up the infection. Other effective medications for ringworm treatment include Pyrithione zinc, Terbinafine, Griseofulvin, and Lufenuron.
33170	Except for individuals with weak immune systems, the condition is not usually serious. The infected area is usually treated with antifungal medications that are applied to the skin. However, if the condition is severe and does not respond to over-the-counter medications, the doctor prescribes a topical or oral medication. But oral medications have side effects such as rashes, gastrointestinal upset, and abnormal function of the liver.
33171	An infected child may take medications orally or applied directly to the infected area. Oral medication may be liquid, table, or a granule mixed with food. It is more effective than medication applied on the area. The medication needs to be taken regularly unless otherwise directed by the physician.
33172	Anti-helminth medication - ivermectin Oral prednisolone to be taken for 2-3 days if severe allergic reaction occurs
33174	If Rocky Mountain spotted fever is suspected, appropriate antibiotics must be administered immediately, as the disease can be fatal. In severe cases, affected patients will require longer antibiotic treatment before the fever can be cured, especially if multiple organ systems have been damaged. Common pharmacological interventions include the use of doxycycline and chloramphenicol.
33176	Like many cancers, rodent ulcer can be treated by surgical excision or radiotherapy. If the cancer is relatively large, a skin graft may be needed. Small ulcers can be removed without the need for grafting. Radiotherapy is usually done on older patients. Protection from the sun is an easy prevention from this disease.
33178	Trigger avoidance to reduce onset of rosacea Using non-irritating cleansers Protection from the sun with the use of sun block or sunscreen with at least SPF 15 Oral tetracycline antibiotics and topical antibiotics like metronidazole Topical azelaic acid like Finacea (15%) Eyelid hygiene for eyelid infections - scrubbing eyelids daily with diluted baby shampoo Dermatological vascular laser CO2 lasers to get rid of excess tissue Combination of plant-sourced Methylsulfonylmethane (MSM) and Silymarin for flushing and skin redness
33181	Bed rest Symptomatic treatments Aspirin NSAIDS Intake of pain reliever
33182	A mild case often heals with only self-care measures or exercise therapy. Other treatment options include steroid injections, surgery, arthroplasty, and self-care.
33183	There is no specific treatment for ratovirus, although medication is given to manage its symptoms. The most important treatment is to maintain hydration to avoid complications and even death. Depending on the seriousness of the patient's dehydration, health care providers may administer oral hydration using plain water, water with salts, or water with salts and sugar. Hospitalization may be needed for IV drips or nasogastric tubes.
33185	In general, symptoms of Rubella infection are resolved with paracetamol treatment. Pharmacological intervention to manage mild symptoms in acquired rubella is used until the disease has run its course.
33187	No specific treatment or antiviral therapy is available for cases of uncomplicated rubeola. Typically, infected patients recover with rest until the infection has run its course.
33190	Treatment for the illness can be done by massage therapy and relaxation to ease the knees. Surgery is required for serious injuries such as a bone fracture. Physical and occupational therapies are sometimes advised to help strengthen the knee bones and muscles.
33191	The spleen may be surgically repaired if the rupture is small. However, in an emergency situation, the entire spleen is removed. The removal of the entire spleen is known as a splenectomy.
33192	The disease can be treated with proper intake of growth hormones as well as undergoing physical therapy.
33196	Most sacral dimples do not require treatment as they are harmless. On rare cases however, it indicates a serious spine or spinal cord abnormality.
33197	The condition is treated based on its underlying cause as well as its signs and symptoms. Medications may include nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, corticosteroids, disease-modifying antirheumatic drugs, and tumor necrosis factor inhibitors. Physical therapy may also be conducted to reduce pain and stiffness.
33200	Salivary gland cancer treatment often includes surgery, with or without radiation therapy. If the carcinoma has not spread beyond the salivary glands, surgery alone may successfully remove the cancer. However, if the tumor is particularly large or irremovable through surgery, radiation therapy may be required. In addition, physical therapy and sometimes reconstructive surgery are integrated in treatment.
33201	Currently, there is no specific treatment available to cure Salla disease. However, therapy can be directed towards managing or controlling symptoms.
33202	Although salmonella is bacterial in nature, antibiotics are see to be detrimental. Patients suffering from this condition are hydrated to control dehydration. Avoiding salmonella-carrying food and drinks is still better than any medication. Prevention of salmonella food poisoning can be as easy as washing your hands.
33203	Most infected individuals do not require treatment. However, in some cases, patients with Salmonellosis can suffer from severe diarrhea, leading to dangerous dehydration. In such cases, intravenous fluids must be given to treat the dehydration, along with appropriate medications to manage symptoms. Antibiotics must be given to treat the disease specifically. In severe cases where the illness can lead to death, antibiotics must be administered promptly or immediately after diagnosis.
33204	This bacterial infection is most commonly treated with antibiotics.
33205	The infection can be treated by antibiotics.
33206	Treatments includes administration of medications to alleviate pain, fluid and bed rest.
33207	There is currently no specific treatment to cure Sandhoff disease. However, an affected patient needs to maintain proper nutrition, clear airways, and hydration. Anticonvulsants are sometimes advised to control seizures. Appropriate medication is also used to treat respiratory infections.
33208	Currently, there is no available treatment for Sanfilippo syndrome. Treatment of affected children remains largely supportive.
33209	Treatment for Santavuori disease is limited at best. Available medications are focused mostly on symptom relief, particularly to treat epilepsy and sleeping difficulties. Physiotherapy is also recommended to assist children in retaining an upright position while preventing some of the pain.
33210	SAPHO syndrome patients are treated based on clinical symptoms. Commonly, therapy is focused on reducing the inflammation in affected tissues. Non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs and corticosteroid medications are prescribed. In addition, topical cold applications can also help reduce symptoms.
33211	Sarcoidosis is typically treated with corticosteroids, particularly prednisone, which slows or reverses the course of the disorder. However, some patients do not respond to steroid treatment. Severe cases generally require steroids, steroid-sparing agents, or cyclophosphamide. The use of immunosuppresants in clinical studies has demonstrated a degree of success, particularly with the use of interleukin-2 inhibitors or anti-tumor necrosis factor-alpha treatment. However, it is believed that this mode of treatment can produce significant side effects.
33212	Treatment for pulmonary sarcoidosis usually consists of corticosteroids to treat the inflammation.
33213	Bone cancer is typically treated through surgery. But since Ewing's sarcoma tend to rapidly metastasize, the patient may also undergo chemotherapy with multiple drugs and radiation therapy
33214	Granulocytic sarcoma should be treated as a manifestation of a systemic disease, rather than as a distinct entity. In patients with leukemia and other associated chloroma, the first-line of treatment is systemic chemotherapy to fight the leukemia. However, if the granulocytic sarcoma is resistant to chemotherapy, surgical intervention or radiation therapy may be necessitated.
33217	The treatment for Savant syndrome is the same with treatment used to cure Autism. The skills of the Savant may also be used as a tool to treat the disorder that is directed toward decreasing or overcoming the handicaps from the more basic developmental injury, disease or disorder. Their skills can also be used to improve their communication skills, social interaction and even mastering daily living skills.
33219	Scabies can be treated topically or orally. Topical therapy may consist of Permethrin, Eurax, Malathion, and Lindane being applied on the affected areas. Oral medications are also used to treat the infestation. A single dose of ivermectin has been documented to cure the infection.
33220	Treatment of scabies can be done by proper hygiene. Topical treatment can be spread on areas where the itch mites thrive. Clothing and bed sheets should also be washed properly to disinfect present mites.
33222	The condition is treated based on the symptoms and underlying cause.
33224	Doctors usually prescribe antibiotic medications such as penicillin, which may be taken orally or through injection; amoxicillin; azithromycin; clarithromycin; clindamycin; and a cephalosporin. The prescribed medications must be followed diligently in order to completely eradicate the condition and avoid developing post-strep disorders.
33225	Treatment for scarlet fever commonly follows the course of strep throat therapy. Antibiotics (penicillin) are used to treat the illness, while appropriate medications are used to target its symptoms. If affected patients are allergic to penicillin, alternative treatments such as clindamycin or erythromycin may be advised.
33226	There is no permanent cure for Schamberg's disease. However, the symptomatic itching can be alleviated by applying cortisone cream on the affected areas. Other types of medication may also be prescribed to help with blood circulation. Ingestion of Vitamin C sources has also been observed to be therapeutic. In some cases, some types of laser treatment may be considered, although none exist that can definitely target the disease.
33227	To date, there is no known cure for Scheie syndrome or any of the mucopolysaccharidosis disorders. Treatment is generally geared towards alleviating the systemic symptoms as well as improving the affected patient's quality of life. Physical therapy along with daily exercise is often recommended to improve mobility as well as delay the onset of joint problems. Currently, enzyme replacement is being tested as a treatment option.
33228	Treatment includes undergoing physical therapy and wearing of back brace to reverse or to halt the Scheuermann's Kyphosis. In some cases surgical procedures whereby two titanium rods are placed in the back of the spine is done.
33229	Treatment includes administration of medicines and corticosteroids and undergoing physiotherapy, occupational therapy and nutritional support.
33230	There is no disease-specific treatment for Schinzel-Giedion syndrome. Treatment of affected patients remains largely supportive and unable to reverse the outcome of the disease. Examples of supportive methods include the use of gastrostomy feeding tubes to prevent malnutrition, administering antibiotics to treat urinary tract infections, anti-seizure medications to reduce seizures, as well as other comforts aimed at managing symptoms and improving the patient's quality of life.
33231	Schistosomiasis can be treated orally with Praziquantel, a drug that has been proven safe and effective in curing the infection. However, while the medication has high efficacy, it cannot successfully prevent a re-infection. Current research efforts are focused on developing a vaccine that will effectively prevent the parasite from completing its life cycle in human hosts.
33231	It can be easily treated with the use of a single oral dose of Praziquantel drug. Other drugs used outside the US is Oxamniquine. Medical experiments have shown that castor oil is used as an oral anti-penetration agent. In addition, Dr Chidzere of Zimbabwe studied the Gopo Berry and found that it can be used to control freshwater snails that carry the disease.
33232	Treatment for patients with Schizencephaly is generally supportive. Physical therapy may be integrated along with appropriate medications to treat seizures and other symptoms.
33233	Schizoaffective disorder can be managed via counseling, medication of prescribed drugs, as well as emotional therapies.
33234	A cure for schizophrenia remains a controversial concept, particularly because there is no consensus regarding the definition of the disease itself. Symptom management seems to be a more realistic treatment mode rather than curing the disease itself. A common medication used in symptom relief today is chlorpromazine. Severe episodes of schizophrenia may require hospitalization of the affected individual. Hospitalization may either be voluntary or involuntary. Currently, long-tern inpatient stays are becoming a common supportive treatment option for schizophrenics.
33238	Make children attend school as quickly as possible Psychological treatment Frequently talking to the child regarding the benefits of attending school Proper attention is given especially when it comes to school matters
33239	Debulking is one produce that can be helpful for Schwannoma, malignant. Surgical resection can be an option but cannot assure of totally eliminating the tumor.
33240	Surgical removal is usually recommended to remove the tumor, however there are possibilities that the tumor may come back after surgery. There are no medications that can cure Schwannomatosis; surgery and pain management are the only options for a person with Schwannomatosis.
33241	Treatment for sciatica will depend on the underlying symptoms that are present.
33242	Scimitar syndrome cases with the presence of significant left to right shunting and pulmonary hypertension surgical procedure aimed at correcting the defect is of useful consideration. In this procedure, an inter-atrial baffle is created to redirect the pulmonary venous return into the left atrium. There are also cases wherein the anomalous vein can be re-implanted directly into the left atrium.
33243	Treatment includes eye surgery to repair the damaged corneal tissue and admnistration of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs like ibuprofen and antibiotics. Corticosteroids and eye solutions are also advised.
33244	Treatment includes application of corticosteroids and administration of antibiotics and pain relievers.
33245	At present, there is no treatment available to treat Scleroderma. Treatment I most of the time directed to treat symptoms and to preserve normal body functions and minimize the occurrence of complications.
33246	Limited scleroderma cannot be cured. But treatment through medical and nonmedical therapies has effectively managed the condition's signs and symptoms. Other treatments include calcinosis, vasodilator, and topical nitroglycerin.
33248	 Watchful waiting for monitoring the condition  Treatment of any fundamental cause of scoliosis  Bracing Spinal brace Spinal cast Milwaukee brace Thoracolumbosacral orthosis (TLSO)  Surgery
33249	Spinal fusion is a surgical procedure wherein immobilization or ankylosis or two or more vertebrae by means of short bone graft or most of the time diskectomy or laminectomy.
33250	Treatments includes administration of antidotes, IV fluid replacement and oxygen therapy.
33251	Scrapie can cause death; this is the reason why it was classified as a fatal degenerative disease. Scrapie is untreatable. The most recommendable ways to control infectivity with other animals is through quarantine or destruction of the infected animals.
33252	There are a number of treatment options available to treat this condition such as prescription medications that includes oral corticosteroids and antihistamines, wet dressings with medicated creams and counseling.
33253	Most cases usually require minimal invasive treatments or even no treatment. Others need serious procedures such as radical inguinal orchiectomy, external beam radiation therapy, chemotherapy, stem cell transplant, and surgery in combination with either radiation or chemotherapy therapy or both.
33254	There is no known treatment for the Scrub Typhus but there are medications that focused more on relieving the symptoms. Antibiotics are also used to ease any infections.
33255	The following are some recommended choices and approach for treatment of Scurvy: * Adequate diet rich in Vitamin C is the most effective treatment to prevent aggravation of Scurvy, * Vitamin C supplements * Regular intake of leafy green vegetables, berries, parsley and other citrus fruits like oranges and lemons.
33256	Keep one finger over one ear Keep mind occupied Take-in anti-seasickness/nausea capsules Keep eyes directed to the fixed horizon Lye down on your back and close eyes Drink something that will instantly lessen the sense of touch and sight Find a place where fresh air is blowing in your face Suck on crystallised ginger or drink ginger tea Move to the boat's center of gravity
33257	Patients with SAD are often recommended to seek light therapy. Bright lights greatly affect moods and behaviors thus lifting one's down feelings. They are also advised to change their biological clocks and resort to more exercise. Antidepressants such as Prozac and Zoloft are also given to reduce depression.
33258	Light therapies, ionized-air reception, medication, careful timed supplementation of the hormone melatonin and cognitive-behavioural therapy are used to treat classic SAD. Other effective treatments are SSRI (selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor) and bupropion.
33259	If theu do not cause cosmetic or functional problems, the cysts are usually left alone. However, if they are raptured, inflamed, or infected, patients may undergo corticosteroid injections, incision and drainage, total excision, minimal excision, or lasers.
33260	Treatments can control signs of seborrheic dermatitis, although there's no cure for it. It mainly depends on your skin type before treatment is done basing on the severity of your condition and where it occurs on your body. The first step in treating seborrheic dermatitis is through the use of medicated shampoos. Salicylic acid, tar, ketoconazole, pyrithione zinc and selenium sulfide are examples of some.
33261	There is still no known specifically established treatment for Seckel Syndrome; however there are symptomatic and supportive measures for symptoms of the disorder.
33262	Many patients outgrow their condition if there are no defect or scar where the seizures originate, which may result to may be difficult to control through medications. Thus, surgery may be an option to remove the defect.
33263	Treatment of the disorder is by special education that focuses on speech development and understanding.
33264	There is no known treatment for senile purpura inasmuch as the bruising fades and heals on its own.
33265	The treatment of Sensorineural hearing loss is usually with the use of hearing aids and cochlear implants.
33266	Sensory integration therapy can help improve the condition of an individual with sensory integration dysfunction especially children. It involves activities that are focused on challenging the child with sensory input; the therapist will then teach and help the child to respond accurately to the sensory stimulus.
33267	Treatment of the underlying cause is most of the time essential to prevent the occurrence of other complications or permanent nerve damage. Treatment options may include medications like pain relievers and physical therapy.
33268	For painful sensory neuropathy treatment may include prescribing pain relievers like aspirin, acetaminophen or non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs for partial pain relief. Other modalities that are proven to alleviate the sensory neuropathic pain include meditation, massage, and cognitive therapy and prescribed exercises.
33269	Psychologists recommend exposing the child to separation encounters such as going to school, and meeting new people in order for him to learn how to be independent. Parents are also advised to teach their children the values of independence and self-reliance in order not to aggravate the condition.
33270	Finding the source of the infection and treating the origin of the infection is one of the vital steps in the treatment of sepsis. Antibiotics are important part of treatment therapy aimed at stopping sepsis. Appropriate support for organ dysfunction is first hand to prevent fatal incidents.
33271	Patients are treated with antibiotics and joint drainage.
33272	Effective treatments for this condition are volume resuscitation, early administration of antibiotic, fast source identification and control and support of main organ dysfunction. Intake of fluids in large amounts is given to a patient to increase blood pressure. In cases wherein the lungs fail a mechanical ventilator is given. To increase blood flow to the brain, heart and other organs drugs are given.
33273	The disease can be treated by antibiotics, as well as blood transfusion. Death may occur when the disease is not treated. It can also cause further complications such as septic shock and a sudden drop in blood pressure.
33274	Treatment includes administration of fluids, oxygen and antibiotics to treat infection and administration of plasma to correct any blood clotting.
33275	Symptomatic treatment is the treatment approach for Septo-optic dysplasia; however optical problems are usually not curable. Therapies for vision, physical and occupational areas may be useful and beneficial. In cases when hormone deficiency is manifested, hormone replacement therapy can be considered as vital treatment approach.
33276	The administration of digoxin specific antibody fragments by a medical professional is the most recommendable treatment for Serious Digitalis Intoxication.
33277	Treatments include administration of antibiotics.
33278	Medications that affect the levels of serotonin in the body are stopped. Severe cases may require medications and hospitalization. Treatment depends to symptoms. Patients may be monitored for their vital signs, take muscle relaxants, serotonin-production blocking agents, and drugs that control heart rate and blood pressure. In more severe cases, the patient may need a breathing tube and machine and medications that paralyze the muscles.
33279	The fundamental and most important step in treating serum sickness is to discontinue the substance or drug triggering the reaction. Though, symptoms may fade away on its own, still necessary precautions would be highly beneficial.
33280	Supportive treatment with antipyretics, supplemental oxygen and ventilator support depending on the needs of the infected patient is often the first approach in managing Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome. There are ongoing researches aimed at testing all known antiviral treatments that can help cure SARS.
33281	Treatments related to atypical pneumonia Antiviral agents Oseltamivir / Ribavirin Oral / IV steroids Combination of Steroid and ribavirin Steroids and other antimicrobials Mechanical ventilation - needed in about 10-20% of cases Isolation of patient
33282	Treatment depends on the cause of the coma. Individuals in coma are given assistance in maintaining their respiration and circulation. They may be administered intravenously with glucose or antibiotics in case of diabetic shock or the brain affected by an infection. Doctors may opt for surgery to alleviate brain swelling.
33283	The most effective treatment for Severe combined immunodeficiency is a bone marrow or stem cell transplant with the aim of developing new cells that will rebuild the immune system of the patient.
33284	Treatment includes administration of oral medications such as cialis, levitra and viagra to improve sexual functioning and blood flow and undergoing testosterone replacement therapy, psychological therapy and penile implants in some cases.
33285	Treatment may include administration of anti-inflammatory medicines, anti-migraine and beta blockers like the metoprolol. Refraining from sexual activity is also advised.
33286	Treatment includes administration and use of a drug named vasodilator into the penis before engaging into sexual intercourse to raise the blood flow in to the penis. Surgical procedures are also advised as wells as controlling blood sugar.
33287	Early stages of Sezary syndrome might be treated with skin therapy directly on the skin like topical medications, superficial radiotherapy and phototherapy. Chemotherapy and immunotherapy are required treatments for advanced stages of the disease. A medication named Vorinostat is considered as a second-line drug for cutaneous T-cell lymphoma combined with phototherapy and chemotherapy.
33288	Chemotherapy, radiation therapy and photodynamic therapy are used in combination with medications with the aim to help control the spread of the cancer.
33289	For severe head injury immediate medical attention is needed. If the victim is vomiting and there is no spinal injury turn the head to the side to prevent choking and aspiration.
33291	The initial treatment for patients with mild disease is usually with non-steroidal anti-inflammatory medications like Ibuprofen to alleviate the pain and inflammation. Most of the time treatment is aimed at lessening the symptoms present.
33292	Lifelong hormone replacement medication is one of the most effective steps in the treatment for pituitary insufficiency. This may include estrogen and progesterone replacement and in some cases thyroid and adrenal hormone replacement as well.
33293	The only surefire way to prevent an allergic reaction is to avoid eating shellfish altogether. Just in case you come in contact with shellfish, always bring along some medications such as antihistamines to provide immediate relief.
33294	One of the first lines in treating Shigellosis is to replace the body fluid and electrolytes loss during diarrhea. This should be first hand in addition to the prescribed antibiotics aimed at treating and avoid spreading the infection in the body of the patient.
33295	Shin splints are usually treated with self-care measures such as rest, placing ice on the affected area, to compressing the area with an elastic bandage or compression sleeve, taking an over-the-counter pain reliever, wearing proper shoes, and using arch supports to cushion and disperse stress on the shinbones.
33296	Symptomatic treatment is essential to limit the intensity and interval of pain, condense the length of a shingles episode and reduce at the most prevent further complications.
33297	On the onset, shock significantly necessitates urgent medical intervention with the main purpose of life preservation. Emergency hospitalization would then require proper management of shock through medical intervention aimed at restoring and maintaining blood circulation volume, achieving effective cardiac function and avoiding further complications. Precise treatment approach to shock depends on the symptoms present and the originating cause of shock.
33298	Short bowel syndrome is likely to develop when more than two-thirds of the small intestine is removed either through surgery or congenital absence of an extensive part of the small intestine.
33299	At present, implantation of implantable cardioverter-defibrillator is the most effective treatment option for individuals with Short QT Syndrome. This device is a battery-powered electrical impulse generator aimed at detecting abnormal electrical activity of the heart and corrects it by delivering a jolt of electricity.
33300	There is no available treatment to cure Short rib-polydactyly syndrome because the abnormal bone development during the prenatal stage is permanent and irreversible. Infants born with Short rib-polydactyly syndrome have poor prognosis, the reason why newborns with this syndrome are given minimum care to keep them warm and comfortable and no extreme measure to prolong life is carried out. They eventually die shortly after birth because of underdeveloped lungs causing inability to breathe.
33301	Treating the condition does not increase stature of patients but only alleviate problems due to complications. Patients may opt for surgical treatments, limb lengthening, and hormone therapy.
33302	Treatment of shoulder arthritis focus more on alleviating the pain experience by the person through administration of over the counter pain relievers. Undergoing Cryotherapy and surgery in extreme cases are also used to treat the medical condition.
33303	Treatment includes administration of antibiotics to lessen and prevent infection, administration of cold compress and intake of antiinflammatory and pain medications. Physical therapy is also used to aid recovery from the shoulder bursitis.
33304	Treatment for Shprintzen syndrome depends on the symptoms presented because there is still no genetic treatment available to cure the syndrome.
33305	Removal, treatment and return of blood plasma components from blood circulation have been an optional treatment for Shulman-upshaw syndrome since the 1990s. This method is known as plasmapheresis.
33306	Treatment is primarily symptomatic. Improper functioning of pancreas would necessitate enzyme replacement immediately. This may help decrease occurrence of diarrhea and foul smelling, oily stool. Appropriate antibiotics should be prescribed to treat infections. Interventions like blood and platelet transfusion may be obligatory to treat anemia and other bleeding problems. Physical and speech therapy may be helpful for developmental delays.
33307	Symptomatic treatment is necessary for Shwachman syndrome like pancreatic enzyme supplementation, treatment and prevention of complications and infections, treatment for hematologic anomalies and prevention of orthopedic deformities.
33309	Symptomatic treatment is usually carried out because there is still no ultimate treatment for Shy-Drager syndrome.
33310	Usual treatment approaches for Sialadenitis include the following:  Drinking fluids or receiving fluids through intravenous lines  Antibiotic administration  Introduction of warm compress on the infected gland  Drinking orange juice or chewing sour, sugarless candies to encourage flow of saliva  In some rare cases wherein infection continues to persist even with the mentioned treatment, surgery may be an option in order to drain the gland.
33311	Supportive care and symptomatic relief are the recommended management options for Sialidosis because treatment options are restricted and incomplete to specifically treat Sialidosis.
33312	Sicca syndrome is treated with antibiotics and anti-inflammatory drugs to reduce risks of swelling and consequent infections.
33313	Treatment for the sick building syndrome is by management of the symptoms. Proper maintenance of facilities as well as keeping up with good sanitation procedures are a must to help reduce the onset of the syndrome.
33314	The condition is treated to eliminate or reduce unpleasant symptoms. Individuals bothered by the symptoms may need only regular checkups while others opt for an electronic pacemaker implant.
33315	Most cases of sickle cell anemia have no cure. Treatments are usually aimed at relieving the symptoms and complications that may arise as the disease progresses. However, some regard bone marrow transplants as effective treatment option.
33316	Blood transfusion is generally indicated for severe cases of sideroblastic anemia. Bone marrow transplant may be necessary for patients with primary marrow disorders. Symptomatic treatment and treatment of the underlying disease is essential part of improving the condition of the patient.
33319	Treatment for the disease is by prevention. Proper diet and weight loss are recommended to relax the nerves and maintain normal blood pressure. For those who have a family history of hypertension, avoidance of stress and high cholesterol foods is advised.
33320	Silicosis is not curable. Treatment is usually aimed at relieving the symptoms and preventing the development of certain complications including discontinuing exposure to silica dust and other lung irritants, cough suppressants, antibiotics and bronchodilators to name a few.
33321	Part of the treatment for Silver-Russell dwarfism include growth hormone therapy; however it cannot guarantee full growth potential but just assistance to improve the condition.
33322	Treatment for Silvery hair syndrome will depend on the symptoms present. Symptomatic treatment is aimed at alleviating the symptoms and preventing further complications.
33323	Supportive management and symptomatic treatment are approaches for SGBS. Genetic counseling may also be beneficial to have a better understanding about the condition and repeated risks in future pregnancies. Enlarged tongue might promote speech difficulties and surgery might be an option to improve the condition.
33324	The condition cannot be cured and treatment is limited. Options for treatment include supportive therapy and blood oxygenation.
33325	Hiccups usually cease on their own, without medical treatment. However, if they are persistent or intractable, the doctor may recommend medications, carotid sinus massage, nasogastric tube, or a nerve block. In rare circumstances when the treatment are not effective, the patient may be injected with an anesthetic to block his or her phrenic nerve to stop hiccups.
33326	Similar to other types of heart block, long term treatment involves the need for pacemaker, which is a small battery-driven device that sends out electrical signals in order to keep the regular heart beat pattern. There are cases wherein no treatment is necessary for heart block especially when the symptoms are very minor or when there are other medical conditions that may serve as conflict for implanting a pace maker.
33327	Treatment includes undergoing chemotherapy, radiation therapy and medications to alleviate pain and swelling.
33328	For acute sinusitis a combination of antihistamine with decongestant or pain reliever are taken in. Hot drinks such as tea and chicken soup are also helpful. Nasal irrigation and jala neti is also used for treatment. Analgesics are also commonly used for treatment but caution must be applied. For Chromic sinusitis nasal irrigation, bulb syringes, squirt bottles, neti pots and pulsating irrigation devices that gets rid of bacteria, purulent material and aids in restoring ciliary function. Medical approaches include referral to otolaryngologist. Surgeries are also performed such as FESS (Functional Endoscopic Sinus Surgery) and nasal surgery. Another developed treatment is the balloon sinuplasty to unclog arteries of the heart which expands the openings of the sinuses.
33329	Treatment includes administration of medications designed to alleviate the heart palpitations and the use of artificial pacemakers.
33330	Treatment for Sipple syndrome is aimed at eliminating the tumors. Subsequent therapy should be carried out to prevent or minimized the remaining symptoms while hormone replacement therapy may be necessary when glands are surgically removed and hormone secretion is not enough.
33331	Sirenomelia is a fatal condition and infants born with Sirenomelia are very lucky if they will manage to survive for days. Usually infants with Sirenomelia die hours after birth.
33333	At the moment that sitosterolemia is diagnosed, treatment plan would include a diet low in plant sterols by eliminating all sources of vegetable fats, vegetable oils, margarine and even chocolate.
33334	Individuals with situs inversus, X-linked are usually unimpaired; they can continue normal living despite of the reverse position of the visceral organs. In cases where congenital heart defects are present, appropriate treatment for the specific underlying heart defect is carried out as required.
33335	There is no vaccine yet available for the disease, but treatments include Paracetamol to reduce the fever.
33336	Treatment is generally symptomatic and supportive because there is still no proven effective treatment that can restore gland secretion.
33336	The doctor reviews the patient's current medications to determine whether they are triggering the condition. The doctor may also recommend self-care measures and medications to ease certain symptoms.
33337	There is now exact treatment to correct the disorder. Immune functions and other symptoms can only be managed by taking drugs as well as physical therapies.
33338	Removal of the lesion is the most common treatment. Radiation therapy and cryotherapy provides sufficient control of the disease for low-risk disease. Moh's micrographic surgery is used to remove the cancer that has the smallest amount of surrounding tissue and edges are immediately checked to see if tumor is present.
33338	Most cancerous skin tumors are removed surgically. Other treatment options include: freezing, excisional surgery, Mohs surgery, curettage and electrodesiccation, radiation therapy, chemotherapy, photodynamic therapy and biological therapy or immunotherapy.
33339	Treatment involves cauterization, cryosurgery, ligation and excision.
33339	Skin tags can be removed by surgery, ligation and cauterization.
33340	The illness is typically treated with self-care measures but there is no treatment for the rash. Affected individuals with severe anemia need hospitalization and blood transfusions. Those with weak immune systems may need to receive antibodies to treat the infection. Pregnant women may be monitored because the babies may possibly be affected. They may underog blood transfusions and medications if their babies have anemia, congestive heart failure, or edema.
33341	The use of positive airway pressure (PAP) device is the most common treatment. Oral Appliance Therapy (OAT) is also prescribed by a dentist specializing in sleep orders to shift the lower jaw forward to open up the airway. For central sleep apnea (CSA) sleeping in the lateral position is helpful. Medications also help such as Acetazolamide that decreases lower blood and encourage respiration. For severe cases surgery and anesthesia inpatients are done.
33342	One effective treatment is the clonazepam wherein the initial dose is 0.5 mg at bedtime. Ritalin is used for daytime medication for structured patterns of sleep and prevents paralysis during sleep in some adults. When taking in Ritalin it is advised to monitor blood pressure.
33342	One effective treatment is the clonazepam wherein the initial dose is 0.5 mg at bedtime. Ritalin is used for daytime medication for structured patterns of sleep and prevents paralysis during sleep in some adults. When taking in Ritalin it is advised to monitor blood pressure.
33343	Wake up the person and lead him or her back to bed. If the condition poses serious harm to the individual, the doctor may recommend short-term use of benzodiazepines or certain antidepressants to stop sleepwalking episodes. If it is associated a medical or mental health condition, the underlying problem is treated.
33344	Various treatments can be done on a slipped disc. Analgesics, adequate bed rest and osteopathy can be taken to relieve one from the pains of the condition.
33345	Treatment of Sly Syndrome is usually symptomatic and supportive aimed at relieving the symptoms and preventing the occurrence of further complications.
33346	Chemotherapy is often recommended in the treatment plan for small cell lung cancer rather than surgery because this type of lung cancer often spreads early on.
33347	The disease is treated by addressing what caused it. Antibiotics are also used to fight the bacteria and keep them from growing back.
33348	Treatment includes the chemotherapy, radiation therapy and surgical removal of the tumor or the part infested with cancer cells.
33349	Treatment for smallpox requires hospitalization along with safety measures to prevent further complications through antimicrobial therapy, vigorous supportive management, and symptomatic treatment of lesions by means of antipruritics, which should start during the pustular stage. Smallpox vaccination given within 1 to 4 days of exposure to the disease will help avoid the disease and lessen the symptoms of the disease. Treatment is often inadequate when smallpox has already infected the body.
33351	There is no cure for Smith- Magenis syndrome; symptomatic treatment is carried out to help alleviate the existing symptoms. Therapies are also considered as part of improving the condition and controlling some behavioral problems of the child with Smith-Magenis syndrome.
33353	There is still no medication proven effective to cure Sneddon syndrome, treatment is usually supportive and symptomatic. This means that treatment depends on the present symptoms that the patient is experiencing. For example, patient with Sneddon syndrome with cardiovascular disease will receive treatment specifically intended to cure this medical condition.
33354	The doctor usually recommends lifestyle changes such as weight loss, new sleeping positions, or avoidance of alcohol near bedtime. If the doctor's suggestions do not eliminate snoring, surgery may be an option. However, individuals with obstructive sleep apnea are not always good candidates for surgery.
33355	Diagnosing the disorder early will help in decreasing the symptoms and the creation of additional problems like depression. Effective treatments for this disorder are psychotherapy, cognitive behaviour therapy which aims to alter thought patterns and physical reactions to uneasy situations. Anti-depressants that are prescribed include selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) and serotonin-norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs).
33356	Talk therapy with a medical professional and prescription medicines are available to help sociophobics get over this type of anxiety disorder. Counseling or talk therapy is aimed at teaching the sufferers how to react in situations that may trigger the anxiety. Prescription medicines include anti-depressants, anti-anxiety medicines and beta-blockers.
33357	Treatment for soft tissue sarcoma depends on the stage of the cancer. Treatment options would include surgery, chemotherapy and radiation therapy.
33358	The patient is referred to a dermatologist to determine the appropriate treatment such as freezing, using creams or ointments, chemical peeling, scraping, photodynamic therapy, laser therapy, retinoids, and dermabrasion.
33359	Solar lentigines do not need treatment because it is a harmless condition. However, some individuals opt to undergo treatment for cosmetic reasons. Treatment options lighten the spots such as the use of medications, laser therapy, freezing, dermabrasion, and chemical peel.
33360	Affected individuals need to change their diet and fluid intake or if the condition is severe, they may need to take medication or undergo surgery. The patient may also undergo therapies such as enemas, biofeedback, or rectopexy.
33362	For symptomatic treatment which aims at decreasing pain and symptoms treatments are cayenne pepper, analgesics, throat sprays, throat lozenges, avoiding foods and drinks high in acid, warm tea, mouthwash, drink a lot of liquid, peppermint candy, yogurt and gargling. For remedial and preventive treatments which aim at decreasing its spread and making the healing process fast and also aims to prevent the start of infection. Treatments include use of antibiotic and taking in a couple teaspoons of raw lemon or lime juice.
33363	Just like other syndromes, treatment plan for Soto's syndrome is often symptomatic.
33364	Treatment generally include avoidance to any soy-based products, especially in children. For infants, parents are advised to ask their doctors on alternative infant formulas for soy milk.
33365	Treatment includes surgical removal of the affected area.
33366	Currently, there is still no known treatment to cure spasmodic dysphonia. Symptomatic treatment is often recommended to reduce the symptoms of the disorder. As of the moment, botox injection is considered as the most promising treatment for spasmodic dysphonia.
33367	In very rare cases, spasmodic torticollis goes away without the need for any treatment. Common treatments for spasmodic torticollis include administration of botulinum toxin (botox) either as medication or injection. Symptomatic treatment for the symptoms might benefit from physical therapy.
33368	The treatment of spasticity lies in the determination and treatment of what is causing it. For instance, if the cause is fatigue, the main remedy is rest. Regular exercise, and muscle stretching or relaxing, and other occupational therapy or physical therapy regimens may help alleviate the symptoms of spasticity. Medications as diazepam or clonazepam, surgery for tendon release or to prevent muscle contraction, and the injection of botulinum toxin into the muscle, are also treatment options for spasticity.
33369	Most spermatic cyst does not require any form of treatment. However, in cases where the patient feels a general discomfort, pain medications are often prescribed as well as possible candidate for surgery to remove the cyst.
33370	Most cases do not require treatment. However, if the patient experiences discomfort, he may take take over-the-counter pain medications such as acetaminophen or ibuprofen. Patients may also opt for surgery to remove the cyst.
33372	Treatment of Spherocytosis depends on the symptoms whether acute or chronic, but there is no definite treatment that can cure the blood disorder itself. Symptomatic treatments include iron dietary supplementation, splenectomy or surgical removal of the spleen, blood transfusion and prophylactic antibiotics.
33374	Treatment for spider angioma can be treated by burning or electrocautery or by laser treatments. For people with liver problem, bloods samples are taken for tests.
33376	Clinical trials were made to study a gene therapy method and neural stem cell injections in the brain of a suffering individual. Though the two have gained quite favorable results, there is still no established evidence that it can accurately cure Spielmeyer-Vogt disease.
33377	Some cases of Spina bifida which do not involve the spinal cord can benefit from surgical repair in order to preserve normal spinal function. Supplementary treatment can also be carried out to treat other underlying conditions like hydrocephalus, hip dislocations and other conditions that can benefit from treatment. Physical therapy is also beneficial to strengthen the muscles and improving flexibility of joints.
33378	Treatment depends on the severity of the damage to spinal cord. Some of the general approaches in the treatment of spinal cord injury include:  Emergency treatments  Stabilization of the backbone  Methylprednisone to reduce swelling and destruction of tissue around the spinal cord  If spinal cord injury resulted to paralysis, rehabilitation is aimed at regaining and improving function.
33379	Steroids are often used to minimize inflammatory reaction. Surgery is sometimes beneficial in some cases while radiotherapy plays a great part in shrinking the size of the tumor and helps in slowing down the spread of the cancer.
33380	Treatment for Spinal Muscular Atrophy includes prevention and management of the effects of long-term motor unit loss. Drugs that aim to treat the disorder are still under investigation for effectiveness.
33381	Treating the clinical symptoms aggravated by spinal shock in order to lessen the intensity and the duration of the condition is the fundamental goal in treating spinal shock.
33382	Mild cases of cervical spinal stenosis are relieved by physical therapy and using a cervical collar. For severe cases; laminectomy or decompression might be an essential treatment. Weight loss might be necessary in treating lumbar spinal stenosis and a sometimes epidural steroid injection is helpful for leg pain relief.
33383	Ideally, the spinal tumor must be removed completely. However, surgical removal of the tumor sometimes causes permanent damage to surrounding nerves. Even with recent advances in treatment, not all spinal tumors are removed completely and nerve damage almost invariably occurs with surgery. Other treatment options for spinal tumor include radiation therapy, chemotherapy, and some medications to manage symptoms.
33384	Spinocerebellar ataxia is a progressive disease with no known cure. Treatment is just limited at diminishing the effects of the symptoms and not the cause of the disease. Supportive treatment includes the use of adaptive devices like canes, crutches, walkers or wheelchair to allow the patient to gain independence as much as possible.
33386	It was observed that passage of gas or stool can help in relieving the characteristic pain of splenic-flexure syndrome. Some foods are known to aggravate the pain; the reason why diet modification is also recommended to minimize the incidence of pain episodes. Avoiding foods that can cause gas and foods that have high fat content is one way of modifying the diet. Some non-prescription medicines that can relieve symptoms of pain can also help.
33387	Some cases of splenomegaly might necessitate splenectomy as treatment, after which vaccination intended for infection and prophylactic antibiotics are administered.
33390	Some cases of spondylarthropathy can be treated by means of joint replacement surgery. Other treatment plans include non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs to relieve the symptoms of pain. Physical therapy and related discipline may also be beneficial.
33391	No treatment is considered effective in curing the disorder, management is aimed at delaying further deformity through therapy and devices like braces. Controlling the pain and inflammation can be achieved by means of anti-inflammatory medications.
33395	Treatment is based on the severity of the condition; treating the primary cause of the encephalopathy would be useful in overturning the symptoms of the disorder only if the condition does not cause permanent and irreversible damage to the brain.
33396	Sporotrichosis is very difficult to diagnose. Confirming diagnosis includes fungus culture from the skin, synovial fluid, cerebrospinal fluid and sputum.
33397	Appropriate antibiotic treatment with Doxycycline and Chloramphenicol is the treatment for spotted fever. Prompt applicable treatment should be initiated until diagnosis is confirmed through laboratory tests.
33399	Treatment for squamous cell carcinoma involves surgical and non-surgical options including excision, curettage and electrodessication, radiation, cryosurgery. There are also cases when laser therapy is also considered as an effective treatment option.
33400	Treatment is done by wearing prescription glasses and sometimes surgery to tighten the muscles that surround the eye.
33401	The most common approach in the treatment of St.Anthony's fire includes symptomatic treatment aimed at alleviating the pain. Wound management can also be beneficial to improve the condition of the skin.
33402	There is still no available vaccine for the virus or specific treatment for St. Louis encephalitis. The option would only be to treat each of the exhibited symptoms.
33403	Various treatments for the condition include lifestyle changes, medications, angioplasty and stenting, or coronary bypass surgery. They reduce the frequency and severity of symptoms as well as lower the risk of heart attack and death. Mild cases may only need lifestyle changes.
33404	The condition is treated by identifying the underlying problem such as surgical repair of a postoperative blind loop or stricture. If it is not reversed, treatment is focused on correcting nutritional deficiencies and eliminating bacterial overgrowth. Antibiotic therapy is effective for treating bacterial overgrowth.
33405	The condition cannot be cured but it is usually outgrown by most children. If it last until the child is beyond 5 years old, speech therapy may be used to decrease stuttering.
33406	Vancomycin is widely used today to treat the infection because the bacteria are already resistant to penicillin. Physicians try to limit the use of antibiotics because it is likely that germs grew resistant to it.
33407	The use of Penicillin has proven effective before, however the bacteria became resistant to it after a decade. Thus, doctors use stronger and more toxic antibiotics
33408	Since it is a bacterial infection, the main treatment is antibiotics. The skin infections caused staph are treated with an antibiotic ointment or in some cases, oral antibiotics. More severe infections are treated with intravenous antibiotics.
33409	Antibiotics, topical mupirocin to be applied inside the nostrils, topical agent combined with an oral antibiotic, vancomycin, are among the treatment options for this condition.
33410	At present, there is still no effective cure to treat Stargardt disease. Management includes learning and working environment adapted to the individual with Stargardt disease in addition to light protection and low vision aids.
33411	Presently, there are no specific recommendation for the treatment of STARI. However, the rash and other accompanying symptoms is believed to be treatable by doxycycline therapy.
33412	The condition is treated by identifying the underlying problem such as surgical repair of a postoperative blind loop or stricture. If it is not reversed, treatment is focused on correcting nutritional deficiencies and eliminating bacterial overgrowth. Antibiotic therapy is effective for treating bacterial overgrowth.
33413	Surgical removal can be carried out on individual cysts. Excision is done to extract the cyst and its content through the opening created on the skin. In cases where inflammation is observed, oral antibiotics are proven effective to relieve the signs of inflammation. Another option is to prescribe a drug called oral isotretinoin to facilitate temporary shrinkage of the cyst and also to reduce swelling. Excision biopsy can be carried out in cases where cysts are tethered to the underlying skin.
33414	The treatment for steatorrhea are prescription medicine and a healthy diet.
33415	The condition is treated based on its underlying cause. The condition is preferably treated through weight loss and exercise; diabetes control; cholesterol control; and avoidance of toxic substances.
33416	The condition has no effective treatment but is symptoms may be improved through the use of certain medications and other measures.
33417	Treatment of Stein-Leventhal syndrome is adapted to the objectives of the person suffering from the syndrome; usually aimed at lowering insulin levels, fertility restoration, acne treatment, restoration of regular menstruation in combination to preventing endometrial hyperplasia and cancer.
33418	Trigger finger treatment varies depending on its severity and duration. Mild cases are effective treated with rest, splinting, finger exercises, avoiding repetitive gripping, soaking in warm water, and massage. Serious conditions may be treated with doctor-recommended medications such as nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs and steroids. Other cases may undergo percutaneous trigger finger release or surgery.
33419	Treatment for Stevens- Johnson syndrome resembles to the approaches used in treating thermal burns. Supportive and symptomatic treatment can relieve the symptoms and results of Stevens - Johnson syndrome because there is still no specific treatment that can cure this syndrome.
33420	Many professionals that are most likely to be involved in the treatment of those with Stickler's Syndrome, include craniofacial surgeons, ear/nose/and throat specialists, ophthalmologists, audiologists and rheumatologists.
33421	Many professionals that are most likely to be involved in the treatment of those with Stickler's Syndrome, include craniofacial surgeons, ear/nose/and throat specialists, ophthalmologists, audiologists and rheumatologists.
33422	Many professionals that are most likely to be involved in the treatment of those with Stickler's Syndrome, include craniofacial surgeons, ear/nose/and throat specialists, ophthalmologists, audiologists and rheumatologists.
33423	Treatment is usually carried out by craniofacial surgeons, specialists in eye, nose and throat, audiologists, rheumatologists and ophthalmologists.
33424	Among the treatment options for sticky eye are medications, and the removal of the blockage from the eye duct.
33425	Treatment is usually palliative with muscle relaxants which enhance GABA production, such as benzodiazepines. These treatments gradually lose their effectiveness as the illness progresses.
33426	Stiff-person syndrome requires medical treatment which may involve either baclofen, benzodiazepine, or tizanidine. Intrathecal baclofen therapy, plasmapheresis, intravenous immunoglobulin, physical therapy and occupational therapy are other treatment options. For symptoms like anxiety and depression, psychiatric consultation may be helpful.
33427	Treatment of Still's disease is targeted toward the individual areas of inflammation. Many symptoms are usually controlled with anti-inflammatory drugs such as aspirin or other nonsteroid drugs (NSAIDs).
33428	Medications used for PTSD is also used to treat Stockholm syndrome. A combination of medications to help in eliminating short-term sleep disturbance and for longer-term symptoms psychotherapy is done.
33429	The initial treatment for Stokes-Adam attack can be medical, which involves the use of drugs like isoproterenol, and epinephrine. The definitive treatment however, is surgical, involving the insertion of a pacemaker.
33430	Cancer of the stomach is hard to cure unless it is found in an early stage (before it has begun to spread). Unfortunately, because early stomach cancer causes few symptoms, the disease is usually in the late stages when the diagnosis is made. Treatment for stomach cancer includes surgery, chemotherapy, and/or radiation therapy. ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
33431	The condition has no specific medical treatment but treatment usually consists of self-care steps.
33432	Gastritis can be treated by avoidance of agents that cause irritation to the stomach lining. Other medications are used to treat the underlying causes of the disease.
33433	Cleansing and good oral hygiene are fundamental. Sharp-edged foods such as tacos, peanuts, and potato chips should be avoided. A soft-bristled toothbrush should be used by the patient, and the teeth and gums should be brushed carefully.
33434	The condition is treated based on the symptoms and underlying cause.
33435	Eye patches, eyeglasses/conact lenses, and prism lenses may be used for patients. Other treatments include vision therapy, surgery, Bates method, and Botox therapy.
33436	In most cases, doctors prescribe about 10 days of antibiotic medication to treat strep throat. ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
33437	Group B strep infections in both newborns and adults are typically treated with antibiotics given intravenously (through a vein).
33438	Treatments for stretch marks include application of tretinoin cream, laser treatments, chemical peels. Skin biopsy and blood tests might be done to diagnose the marks accurately.
33439	Treatments for stretch marks include application of tretinoin cream, laser treatments, chemical peels. Skin biopsy and blood tests might be done to diagnose the marks accurately.
33440	Assessing the symptoms early is very helpful in treating stroke. Accepted treatments of stroke are operation such as carotis endarterectomy and angioplasty; medications such as anti-platelet drugs, anticoagulants; hospital care and rehabilitation.
33441	The drug of choice for the treatment of strongyloidiasis is ivermectin. Ivermectin does not kill the strongyloides larvae but only the adult worms so therefore repeating dosaging may be necessary to properly eradicate the infection.
33443	Laser treatment may be administered to lighten or remove the birthmark. Anticonvulsant medications may be utilized to control seizures. Doctors recommend yearly monitoring for glaucoma, and surgery may be performed on more severe cases. Physical therapy should be considered for infants and children experiencing muscle weakness.
33444	For the moment there is no recommended cure for stuttering because most of the children affected outgrow stuttering on their own. Speech therapy is also done, if the stuttering last for more than six months.
33445	A topical antibiotic cream may be subscribed by a physician. If the sty filled with pus did not rapture on its own the doctor or ophthalmologist may opt to drain the pus to relieve the pressure and pain. If there is a generalized infection happens oral antibiotics are prescribed.
33446	There is no cure for SSPE but if it is caught early then the sufferer can respond to the treatment and prevent symptom recurrence by taking the medication for the rest of their life.
33447	The condition usually requires surgery the type of which surgery depends on the hematoma's characteristics. The procedures may be perforation or craniotomy. Some subdural hematomas do not require removal because of their small size and that they do not have signs or symptoms. The doctor may only use medications control brain swelling.
33448	The condition usually requires surgery the type of which surgery depends on the hematoma's characteristics. The procedures may be perforation or craniotomy. Some subdural hematomas do not require removal because of their small size and that they do not have signs or symptoms. The doctor may only use medications control brain swelling.
33449	Infertility is treated depending on its cause and the duration of infertility as well as the age of each partner and other preferences. Male infertility may be treated with medications, behavioral approaches, surgery, or use of assisted reproductive technology. Female infertility may also be treated with assisted reproductive technology or through surgery such as laparoscopic techniques surgically repair blockages or other problems in the fallopian tubes can often be surgically repaired.
33450	A diagnosis of SSADH deficiency is done based upon urine organic profiling or blood amino acid analysis.
33453	The core of therapy is beta blocker medications for most of the patients. It is known that this medication is 90% effective. There are other medications that the physician can suggest aside from the beta blocker medication. In cases wherein the patient does not respond to the medication a pacemaker is inserted or an automatic defibrillator or cutting nerves surgically in the neck which is referred to as cervico-thoracic sympathectomy.
33454	Sudden cardiac arrest is an urgent emergency situation, and immediate treatment is crucial in the patient's survival. A first step in emergency treatment is immediate cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) to maintain blood flow in the body's vital organs. Defibrillation may also be done to restore heart function. A medical team will usually work together to stabilize the patient's condition in the emergency room. If the patient has stabilized, treatment will then consist of medications; implantation of cardioverter-defibrillator (ICD); coronary angioplasty; coronary bypass surgery; radiofrequency catheter ablation; corrective heart surgery; and heart transplantation.
33455	If a cardiac arrest was due to ventricular tachycardia or ventricular fibrillation, survivors are at risk for a future arrest, especially if they have underlying heart disease.
33456	The best method of treating SIDS is by prevention. Pregnant women should adequate prenatal care and avoid exposure to harmful substances. Breastfeeding is also a must.
33457	Treatment for the disease involves anti-inflammatory drugs such as corticosteroid. Physical therapy is also helpful to prevent muscle wastage.
33459	No medical treatments that improve neurologic outcome are known, especially for those with neonatal presentation of this disorder.
33460	First aid treatment involves bringing down the body temperature to normal levels. This can be done by rubbing cold water or alcohol on the skin. Small sips of water are also given, and a cold bath can also help lower body temperature. Massaging the muscles and limbs suffering from cramps and numbness also ease the body's exhaustion from sun stroke.
33461	Severe sunburn can be treated with doctor prescribed medication such as nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory medication to relieve inflammation, pain, and swelling as soon as the symptoms appear. Corticosteroid medication to speed up the healing process and reduce pain and swelling but is not recommended for severe sunburns because it increases the risk of infection. Individuals with sunburn may also apply cool compress and aloe vera lotion.
33462	Superficial phlebitis may be treated through self-care steps such as applying hot compress on the affected area, and using an anti-inflammatory drug. Other treatment options include anticoagulant medications, filter, and surgery, like varicose vein stripping and bypass.
33463	Treatment of PSP is challenging at best; only a few patients respond to dopaminergic or anticholinergic drugs, and responses often are incomplete and short-lived. No medication is effective in stopping the progression of PSP. Several medications, including dopamine agonists, tricyclic antidepressants, and methysergide, may offer modest symptomatic improvement in some of the clinical features.
33464	Supraspinatus tendonitis can be treated by painkillers and cortisone medications, adequate rest, hot and cold compression, acupuncture and osteopathy.
33466	Fear of mice may be treated by any known standard treatment for specific phobias.
33467	There are a few case reports of the retinopathy due to Susac's disease responding to hyperbaric oxygen treatment, with dramatic improvement of acuity. Treatment regiments that have been proposed empirically include IVIG, high dose IV steroids. There are certain MRI sagittal FLAIR appearances described in the radiologic literature.
33468	The condition is treated according to its type and cause. The patient may therapy to help coordinate the swallowing muscles or surgery to clear the esophageal path. The doctor may also prescribe oral medications. For a severe condition, the patient may have special liquid diets.
33469	Treatments for sweaty sock syndrome will include prescription of topical corticosteroid or cortisone cream, and administering antihistamine pills to treat severe itching.
33470	It is currently being treated at the cellular level through the use of enzyme replacement therapy using Agalsidase alpha (Replagal) and Agalsidase beta (Fabrazyme).
33471	If left untreated, Sweet's syndrome not associated with a malignancy may disappear on its own within one to three months. In contrast, the right treatment may improve the skin lesions and associated symptoms significanltly in just two or three days, with the worst of the lesions disappearing within one to four weeks.
33472	Mercury poisoning can be treated with chelation therapy. Vitamin C treatment is also helpful in preventing further problems caused by the toxin, but the damages of mercury poisoning are no longer reversible.
33473	Treatment of the infection includes cleaning, topical medications, oral medications, and lifestyle modifications while undergoing treatment.
33474	Due to the fact that the parasite dies in a matter of hours, treatment is not necessary. In cases where the itching is intense a dermatologist should be seen for either prescription drugs or cream to reduce the itching.
33474	The condition ceases on it own but over-the-counter antihistamines or anti-itch creams may be used to control the itching. If it is severe, the doctor may prescribed a medication.
33475	Treatment is done by the use of antibiotics. It would take a few months however, before the lesions heal.
33476	The most commonly-used treatment for swollen lymph nodes caused by a bacterial infection is antibiotics. Some OTC pain relievers and fever reducers include aspirin, ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin, others) and acetaminophen (Tylenol, others).
33478	Movements cease during sleep, and the disease usually resolves after a number of months.
33479	Treatment includes enucleation of the injured eye, evisceration or the removal of the globe while leaving the sclera and extraovular muscles intact. Immunosuppressive therapy and the use of corticosteroids and pupillary dilators are also use to treat the medical condition affecting the eye.
33481	Treatment for vasovagal syncope concentrates on avoidance of triggers, restoring blood flow to the brain during an impending episode, and measures that interrupt or prevent the pathophysiologic mechanism.
33482	Surgery may be done to separate webbed fingers or toes. As with any surgery, there are risks of complications arising. In addition to the incision between the fingers or toes, sometimes it is required to perform a skin graft, where some skin is removed from elsewhere on the body to graft into the newly exposed space between the fingers or toes.
33483	Treatment includes fluid restriction , intravenous saline, drugs, and the treatment of underlying causes when possible.
33484	While there is no drug treatment that directly reverses the insulin resistance that causes syndrome X, there is a way to reverse the insulin resistance - diet and exercise. Patients should make every attempt to decrease their body weight to within 20% of the "ideal" body weight calculated for age and height.
33486	Infants with the condition usually undergo surgery to separate the fused bones. If there is no brain abnormality, surgery may only create additional space to allow the brain for adequate growth and development. However, surgery is not required in mild cases in which skull abnormalities become less apparent as the infant grows and develops.
33487	Asymptomatic patients with SOC do not need therapy. Those with symptoms should undergo arthroscopic or surgical removal of intra-articular bodies. Patients who have recurrent intra-articular bodies or in whom the entire synovial lining is metaplastic need total synovectomy.
33488	Treatment usually involves surgery, conventional chemotherapy, and radiotherapy.
33489	Symptoms of synovitis can be treated with anti-inflammatory drugs such as NSAIDs. Specific treatment depends on the determining cause of the inflammation.
33490	Early diagnosis and treatment with penicillin - or another antibiotic if the patient is allergic to penicillin - can kill the organism that causes syphilis and stop the progression of the disease. Left untreated, the disease can result to serious complications or death.
33492	They may be taken out with erbium or carbon dioxide lasers
33493	Surgery is the only viable treatment for syringomyelia, and a neurosurgeon is the only specialist qualified to provide a fully informed recommendation for the disorder.
33494	Different treatment regimens are available for SSC. The therapeutic approach depends on the presentation of the disease and complexity of its symptoms.
33495	In acute situations, if the patient presents with hypoketotic hypoglycemic encephalopathy, insure stabilization with 10% dextrose in water at rates of 10 mg/kg/min IV initially; adjust infusion rate depending on blood glucose concentrations.
33496	As lupus erythematosus is a chronic disease with no known cure, treatment is limited to dealing with the symptoms; essentially this involves preventing flares and reducing their severity and duration when they occur
33497	There is currently no cure for mastocytosis. However, there are a number of medicines to help treat the symptoms of mastocytosis, such as: antihistamines, leukotriene antagonists, mast cell stabilizers, proton pump inhibitors, and epinephrine.
33498	There is no cure for CTCL, but there is a wide variety of treatment options available and some CTCL patients are able to live somewhat normal lives with this cancer, although symptoms can be debilitating and painful, even in earlier stages.
33501	Treatment of tachycardia is typically directed at chemical conversion (with antiarrhythmics), electrical conversion (giving external shocks to convert the heart to a normal rhythm) or use of drugs to simply control heart rate (for example as in atrial fibrillation).
33502	Treatment includes supplementing oxygen supply by nasal cannula or face masks. Intubation and mechanical ventilation may also be used to treat the medical condition.
33503	As with most cestodes, treatment can be ensured with the use of Praziquantel and Niclosamide.
33504	Treatment for the illness is by providing comfort on the swelling area. Adding a cushion to the place where the person is going to sit. Severe cases are treated corticosteroids to reduce the inflammation.
33505	Takayasu disease can be treated by suppressing the inflammation with cortisone medication. While most patients can improve, some do not or end up relapsing.
33506	The goal of treatment approach is primarily control the inflammation as well as prevents further damage to the blood vessels. Like any other diseases, early detection is important to prevent further damage. Although in the advanced stage, a bypass surgery may be required. Medications usually include corticosteroids and cytotoxic drugs.
33508	Clubfoot is treated with manipulation by podiatrists, orthopedic surgeons, specialist nurses, or orthotists by giving braces to hold the feet in orthodox positions, serial casting, or splints called knee ankle foot orthoses (KAFO).
33510	Infected individuals usually take oral medications toxic to the tapeworm. These medications include praziquantel or albendazole as well as niclosamide. They are prescribed depending on the species of tapeworm and where it has infected. If the tapeworm has infected in the form of cysts, the doctor may prescribe an anti-inflammatory steroid, which reduces swelling caused by the cyst development. Surgery may also be required if the cyst development occurred organs such as the liver and lungs. The patient may also undergo an organ transplantation as a last resort in some cases.
33511	Treatments vary from platelet transfusions through to surgery aimed at 'normalizing' the appearance of the arm, which is much shorter and 'clubbed.' The infant mortality rate has been curbed by new technology, including platelet transfusions, which can even be done in utero. The crucial period is the first year of life. For most people with TAR, platelet counts improve as they grow out of their childhood.
33512	Primary prevention of tardive dyskinesia is done by using the lowest effective dose of a neuroleptic for the shortest time. If tardive dyskinesia is diagnosed, the causative drug should be decreased or discontinued if possible. Tardive dyskinesia may stay after withdrawal of the drug for months, years, or even permanently.
33513	Treatments typically include rest, manipulation, strengthening of tibialis anterior, tibialis posterior, peroneus and short toe flexors, casting with a walker boot, wrapping, corticosteroid and anesthetic injections, hot wax baths, compression hose, and orthotics. Medications may include various anti-inflamatories, ultracet, anaprox, and Neurontin and Lyrica.
33516	There is currently no cure or treatment known for TSD. Even with the best care, children with Infantile TSD die by the age of 5, and the progress of Late-Onset TSD can only be slowed down, not reversed.
33517	There is usually no treatment in most cases. However, if it is severe, treatment may be required through stress management, dental approaches, behavior therapy, biofeedback sessions with a therapist, and medications.
33518	Telangiectasias are generally treated with laser or IPL therapy. There have been medication based treatments available for the last 50 years. Laser therapy uses light beam that is pulsed onto the veins in order to seal them off, leading them to dissolve.
33519	There is no known specific treatment for the condition. Anemia because of bleeding from digestive tract AVMs often necessitates repeated blood transfusions. AVMs in critical organs often requires surgery
33520	There is no cure for the condition but immediate treatment can relieve symptoms and prevent the loss of vision. Thus, the doctor starts medication before a diagnosis is confirmed through a biopsy. High doses of a corticosteroid drug are used to treat the condition.
33521	There are several oral medications available for the management of epileptic seizures, typically termed anticonvulsants or antiepileptic drugs (AEDs, for short). For temporal lobe epilepsy specifically, the most frequently used AEDs are (historically) phenytoin, carbamazepine, valproate and phenobarbital. Newer drugs like gabapentin, topiramate, Levetiracetam and lamotrigine, promise similar efficacy with fewer side-effects.
33522	Many patients outgrow their condition if there are no defect or scar where the seizures originate, which may result to may be difficult to control through medications. Thus, surgery may be an option to remove the defect.
33523	There is no particular cure for TMJ syndrome so physicians concentrate on reducing pain and improving function. The type of treatment depends on the specialist visited a dentist will concentrate on the relationship of the teeth and the jaw and he might make a splint that aids in guiding your bite in the right direction. An oral and maxillofacial surgeon performs surgeries in severe cases. They may also perform several procedures such as arthocentesis, arthroscopy,arthroplasty or total joint replacement.
33524	Treatment for TJD includes muscle relaxation exercises and analgesics.
33525	The initial treatment is early withdrawal of culprit drugs, early referral and management in burn units or intensive care units, supportive management, and nutritional support.
33526	Surgical repair is required if the condition is severe and leads to a tendon rupture. Corticosteroid injections or topical applications may also be recommended to reduce inflammation and ease pain. However, these types of treatment have side effects such as weakening of a tendon. Most cases usually only requires rest and medications to reduce pain and inflammation in the tendon. Preventive measures reduce chances of developing tendinitis.
33527	The condition is initially treated with self-care measures such as rest, putting ice in the area, and using acetaminophen or over-the-counter anti-inflammatory medications such as ibuprofen or naproxen. However, they can cause serious gastrointestinal problems if used in a long term. If these steps do not work, the doctor may suggest an expert evaluation of the condition to determine the steps in reducing the stress on the injured tissue. Exercises are also recommended by a physical therapist to gradually stretch and strengthen the muscles. Injection of a corticosteroid injection may also be suggested if the pain is severe and persistent. Surgery is an option when other approaches have not eased the pain.
33528	Treatment for teratomas include surgery, chemotherapy, and clinical trials.
33529	Enteritis is treated by medications to reduce the degeneration of the small intestine. For severe cases however, surgery is required, thus replacing the small intestine. The disease can be very debilitating especially to infants. Corticosteroids are given to help stop the inflammation.
33530	Treatments include chemotherapy, radiotherapy, surgical testicle removal, and surgical removal of local lymph nodes.
33531	The condition usually self-corrects. If not, surgery may be an option to move the testes in its proper position in the scrotum. Another option is hormonal therapy in which the descent of the testes is induced.
33532	The treatment for testicular cancers depends on the severity or stage of the disease. Options for treatment are surgery, radiation therapy, chemotherapy and advanced or recurrent treatment is done if the cancer keeps coming back or the patient has not responded to the other treatments. One kind of advanced treatment that is being studied is he stem cell transplant where in stem cells are filtered from the blood and frozen for future use.
33532	In general, testicular cancer is treatable, even if it has spread beyond the testicle. The primary treatment is radical inguinal orchiectomy, a surgical procedure to remove the affected testicle. In addition, radiation therapy and chemotherapy may also been integrated in treatment.
33533	The condition needs immediate medical treatment to save the testicle and avoid permanent damage that may affect fertility. Surgery is still required to prevent recurrence even if doctors can untwist a testicle
33534	The condition is treated depending on its cause and when it occurs. Testosterone replacement therapy is used in some types of hypogonadism in which fertility is not an issue. If the cause is pituitary problem, pituitary hormones are used to stimulate sperm production and restore fertility. Patients with a pituitary tumor may undergo surgery to remove the tumor, medication, radiation, or the replacement of other hormones. Assisted reproduction may also help fertility.
33535	The wound must be cleaned and sterilized. Dead and infected tissue should be taken out by surgical debridement. Metronidazole treatment reduces the number of bacteria but has no effect on the bacterial toxin. Penicillin was once used to treat tetanus, but is no longer used because of a theoretical risk of increased spasms.
33536	Treatment includes administration of over the counter pain relievers to alleviate pain and muscle cramping.
33537	For children, early surgery is needed to avoid further damage especially neurologically. Further operations may be conducted as the child grows up especially in difficult cases.
33538	Treatment includes surgical procedure to correct and prevent neurological deterioration.
33539	Immediate management of tet spells Palliative surgery Total surgical repair Intracardiac repair perfomed during the first year of life
33540	The condition cannot be reversed. But patients are treated prevent further injury and enable them to have an active and productive life within the limits of their disability. Thus , patients need urgent emergency attention and continuous care.
33542	Normally, there are no treatments needed for the minor form of thalassemia. For thalassemia major, the primary treatment is regular blood transfusions, often every four weeks. In addition to the blood transfusions, doctors suggest injections of Desferal to help the body flush out the extra iron created by the new blood.
33543	The primary treatment is regular blood transfusions, typically every four weeks. In addition to the blood transfusions, doctors suggest injections of Desferal to help the body flush out the extra iron created by the new blood. The injections are administered under the skin from a small pump 5 to 7 nights a week.
33544	No treatment is necessary for thalassemia minor. In particular, iron is neither required nor advised.
33545	Treatment for Thallium poisoning includes administration of potasium ferrihexacyanoferrate or the Prussian Blue or Berlin Blue, and undergoing dialysis and medication to excrete the poison out of the body.
33546	As most people age, they come to acceptance of death as an unavoidable reality. Those who suffer from the phobia need a little help getting to that point, especially if their responses to situations involving death are extreme and limiting to their lives. Anxiety medications, coupled with psychological therapy can decrease the symptoms and give you the right perspective on death, eventually eliminating the need for medicines.
33547	Treatment includes prompt administration of parenteral thiamine and undergoing therapy as well as taking thiamine rich diet which may include vegetables, grains, shrimp and mussles.
33548	Only a few patients need surgical decompression through either removal of the upper rib, muscle scraping, or scar tissue. Usually, continued and active postural changes along with physiotherapy, chiropractic or osteopathic manipulation, will suffice.
33549	Throat cancer is treated by destroying the invading cancer cells, usually through surgery, radiation, or chemotherapy. In some cases, surgery may be required to completely remove the tumor as well as the affected vocal cords. If vocal cords are removed, implantation of artificial vocal cords may be done.
33550	Patients with Glanzmann thrombasthenia who are bleeding need platelet transfusion. Because patients are likely to need multiple transfusions during their lifetime, take care to avoid platelet alloimmunization. Prevention is best accomplished by utilizing leukocyte-depleted blood products. Leukocyte depletion can be done with mechanical filtration. Only filtered blood products should be administered. Use of platelets matched via human leukocyte antigen (HLA) is a further attempt to hinder platelet alloimmunization.
33551	There is no cure for the condition. However, patients who smoke need to quit using tobacco in any form to stop the disease from progressing. Those who cannot stop may worsen their condition, which may require amputation of the affected fingers or toes in the occurrence of infection and gangrene. Other treatment options may include medications that improve blood flow or dissolve blood clots, surgery to cut the nerves in the affected area to control pain.
33552	Treatment depends on the underlying disease.
33553	Treatment is guided by etiology and severity of the disease. The primary concept in treating thrombocytopenia is to eliminate the underlying problem, whether that means discontinuing suspected drugs that cause thrombocytopenia, or treating underlying sepsis
33554	Usually treatments start from transfusion of platelets to surgery. Proper care for the baby should also be observed and it is recommended that they should be checked for heart abnormalities. Regular visit to a paediatric orthopaedist should be established to improve the level of functionality of the hands of the child as much as possible.
33556	Treatment depends on how severe the bleeding symptoms are and the platelet count, while in mild cases, treatment may not be needed.
33557	Some treatments for ATP include steroids, splenectomy, anti-D, steroid-sparing agents, and platelet transfusions.
33558	Often, no treatment is needed or necessary for reactive thrombocytosis.
33559	Treatment includes admnistration of anticoagulants or those blood thinners, aspirin and medicines which are used to relax and widen the vessels. It may also include surgical thrombectomy and change of diet which must include vitamin K rich diet
33560	The doctor recommends self-care measures if the condition only occurs in a superficial vein. Self-care measures include elevating the affected leg, applying hot compress to the painful area, and using a nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug. The doctor may also recommend other treatments including injection of a blood-thinning medication for deep vein thrombosis, usage of support stockings, filter that prevents clots from breaking loose in leg veins to lodge in the lungs, varicose vein stripping, and clot removal or bypass.
33561	Some forms of thrombosis may be treated with the use of clotbusting drugs or fibrinolytic therapy. It is believed that to reduce the death rate a combination of fibrinolytic drugs and aspirin is used.
33563	While home remedies may provide relief in minor cases of infection, seeking medical attention may be necessary, especially if the extent of the infection cannot be judged accurately by the patient.
33564	The primary treatment for thymus tumours is surgery. Chemotherapy, radiotherapy, or a combination of both may also be utilized.
33565	Surgery is the primary of treatment for thymoma. If the tumor is malignant and very large, chemotherapy may be needed to shrink the tumor before surgery is attempted. If the tumor was harmless and was removed completely, no further therapy is necessary.
33566	Treatment includes surgery to remove the tumor, radiation therapy, chemotherapy and hormone therapy.
33567	Treatment for a thyroglossal cyst is surgical resection, usually requiring concomitant removal of the midsection of the hyoid bone. Although generally harmless the cyst will be removed if the patient exhibits difficulty in breathing or swallowing, or if the cyst is infected. Even if these symptoms are not present the cyst may be taking out to eliminate the chance of infection or development of a carcinoma, or for cosmetic reasons if there is unsightly protrusion from the neck.
33568	Thyroid cancer can be treated with the following: surgery, thyroid hormone therapy, radioactive iodine follow-up screening and therapy, external beam radiation, and chemotherapy.
33569	About 4-6 weeks after surgical thyroid removal, patients should have radioiodine to detect and destroy any metastasis and any residual tissue in the thyroid. Administer therapy until no further radioiodine uptake is seen.
33571	Treating thyroiditis depends on what type the patient has. Hormone replacement is done for Hashimoto's thyroiditis. Most patients only needs bed rest and aspirin but steroids are also used to decrease inflammation and control tremors. Beta blocker or Inderal are also prescribed by physicians to decrease heart rate and tremors for some patients.
33572	Tic Douleureux can effectively be treated by taking analgesics.
33573	Most cases of are effectively treated with medications. However, in other cases, the affected individuals no longer the medications or had unpleasant side effects, which require injections or surgery.
33574	If the patient received a tick bite a first-aid treatment will be helpful such as remove the tick immediately and carefully; seal the tick in a container because the doctors might want to see the type of tick that bit the patient that is if it is possible; wash your hands and the area bitten with soap and water and call the doctor if the tick is impossible to remove.
33575	Removal of the embedded tick usually leads to the resolution of symptoms within several hours to days. If the tick is not removed, the toxin can be fatal, with reported mortality rates of 10-12 percent, usually because of respiratory paralysis.
33576	There is no specific drug therapy for this disease. Anti-inflammatory drugs, such as corticosteroids, may be considered under specific instances for symptomatic relief.
33578	NSAIDs are the most effective treatment for the disease, combined with adequate rest.
33579	Treatment includes consultation to a dermatologists and application of topical agents such as creams and powder sprays, oral antifungal and antimyotic drugs.
33580	Oral antifungal medications are the effective treatment for tinea barbae especially the inflammatory form.
33581	An infected child may take medications orally or applied directly to the infected area. Oral medication may be liquid, table, or a granule mixed with food. It is more effective than medication applied on the area. The medication needs to be taken regularly unless otherwise directed by the physician.
33582	Tinea versicolor is treated with antifungal creams, lotions, or shampoos. However, if it is severe or unresponsive to over-the-counter medicine, the doctor may prescribe topical or oral medication.
33583	If the ringing in the ears is due to age-related hearing loss or damage to the ears by exposure to excessive noise, no treatment can reduce the noise.
33584	Treatment is done by giving adequate rest, proper diet, and by addressing the underlying illness that affect the child's energy levels.
33585	Treatment of Todd's paralysis is symptomatic and supportive since the paralysis disappears quickly.
33587	Treatment of THS is typically completed using corticosteroids (often Prednisone) and immunosupressive agents (such as Methotrexate or Azathioprine). Corticosteroids act as analgesia and lessen pain (usually within 24-72 hours), as well as reducing the inflammatory mass, whereas immunosupressive agents help reduce the autoimmune response.
33588	Tongue neoplasm may be treated with surgery, radiotherapy, and chemotherapy.
33589	The condition is usually treated by oral medications to prevent seizures. At first, the doctor prescribes a low dosage of a single drug and may increase it gradually until the seizures are controlled. However, if the treatment is unsuccessful, the doctor may recommend a combination of two drugs. The doctor may also suggest other treatment options including vagus nerve stimulation or a ketogenic diet.
33590	Pain management medications (topical anesthetics, viscous lidocaine) Lozenges Antibiotics with penicillin for bacterial tonsillitis Ibuprofen and analgesics to reduce swelling and edema Gargling with a warm water and salt solution to relieve pain and swelling Surgery for chronic cases
33591	Treatment can be done by preventive oral health measures such as frequent tooth brush, visits to the dentist and regular cleaning. Decayed teeth are hence removed.
33592	Simple health care tips are very helpful in treating a toothache such as rinsing mouth with warm water, using dental floss to remove particles of food, over the counter pain reliever and over the counter antiseptic which mainly contains benzocaine which primarily relieves pain. A visit to the dentist is necessary when the pain persists for more than two days, fever and headache are experienced and trouble in breathing or swallowing.
33594	Sometimes, the condition only requires rest, ice, and medication. However, some cases may also require surgical repair.
33595	The condition is treated with physical therapy, with stretching to correct the tightness, strengthening exercises to achieve muscular balance, and handling to stimulate symmetry.
33598	The treatment of Tourette's concentrates on identifying and helping the individual manage the most troubling or impairing symptoms. Most cases of Tourette's are mild, and do not require pharmacological treatment; instead, psychobehavioral therapy, education, and reassurance may be adequate.
33600	The condition can only be cured by delivering the baby. If the condition is diagnosed earlier in the pregnancy, it may be continually monitored to allow time for the baby to mature, without putting the mother and baby at risk of serious complications.
33601	Most toxic hepatitis have no specific treatment except for acute acetaminophen overdose, which is effectively treated with the chemical acetylcysteine given within 24 hours of the overdose. Most drug-induced toxic hepatitis can only be treated by stopping the medication. Other treatments may include supportive therapy and liver transplant.
33602	The severity of this disease requires hospitalization. Treatment consists of aggressive IV fluid administration and antistaphylococcal antibiotics, like cephalosporins, penicillinase-resistant semisynthetic penicillins or vancomycin.
33603	Treatment for the infection includes mebendazole or thiabendazole and specific organ treatment.
33604	No treatment is required among those without symptoms. Treating the infection may include utilizing medications such as antimalarial drugs and antibiotics. If AIDS patients contract the disease, treatment should be continued for as long as their immune system is weak to prevent the disease from reactivating.
33605	Among pregnant mothers, spiramycin can treat the infection. Pyrimethamine and sulfadiazine meanwhile can be used to treat fetal infection and usually lasts for a year.
33606	Following confirmation of a TEF diagnosis, surgical repair is required. Among healthy infants without pulmonary complications, primary repair is performed within the first few days of life. Malignant TEFs meanwhile require individualized treatments and should be instituted promptly.
33607	Long term complications can be prevented with the use of antibiotics if used during the early stage of the infection. Among said antibiotics include erythromycin and doxycycline. Eyelid surgery is sometimes required in certain cases to prevent long term scarring. Without surgery, the scarring may lead to blindness.
33609	Blood transfusions are required in patients with severe TEC when signs of clinical decompensation are evident. Nonemergent transfusions may also be performed as long as it is recommended by a pediatric hematologist.
33610	One TGA is diagnosed; a follow-up with a neurologist is required. Activities that could produce an unusual increase in inthrathoracic pressure should also be avoided.
33611	Treating the attack is focused on correcting the abnormality and preventing a stroke. The doctor may prescribe certain medication depending on the cause of the attack. The medication reduces the tendency for a blood clot. The doctor may also recommend surgery or a balloon procedure when necessary.
33612	The existing treatments for TCC include topical immunotherapy or chemotherapy, systemic chemotherapy, and radiation therapy. After diagnosis of upper-tract TCC, surgical intervention is required and is the main form of radical treatment for localized disease. Radical nephroureterectomy may also benefit those with poorly differentiated tumors or high-stage disease. Other procedures include endoscopic treatment and conservative open surgical treatment.
33614	Babies are immediately given prostaglandin through an intravenous line (IV). The medicine helps blood flow through the lungs and body. Some cases may require surgery shortly after birth to temporarily adjust the affected blood vessels. Some hospitals perform an arterial switch procedure to permanently correct the problem.
33615	Treatment of the disease is usually symptomatic. Application of corticosteroids achieved limited success.
33616	Medications such as meclizine and cyclizine are taken prior to the trip to prevent motion sickness.
33617	Oral Rehydration Solution (ORS) for diarrhea Antimotility Agents to provide temporary relief by inhibiting intestinal movements Medical assistance should be sought in cases where there is blood in the stool, fever, person becomes confused and the condition does not go away within 72 hours. Antibiotic treatment - ciproflaxacin for bacterial infection
33618	To improve appearance, people with the syndrome can undergo surgeries and get hearing aids. Those with cleft palate may also undergo surgery.
33619	Tranquilizers, beta-blockers, and antiepileptic drugs are among the drugs used in treating ET. In severe cases, surgical treatments such as botulism toxin injection into the affected muscles, thalamotomy, pallidotomy, and deep brain stimulation (insertion of a brain pacemaker) are among the popular options.
33620	Medicaitons: prescribed antibiotics, over the counter pain relievers Proper cleaning of the teeth and gums: removal of dead gum tissue by the dentist, mouth rinsed with antiseptic solution, scaling and root planning, rinsing mouth with hydrogen peroxide mouthwash or salt-water solution after cleaning Surgery: for extensive damage of the gum
33620	The condition is successfully treated in a couple of weeks through medications and teeth and gum cleaning. However, affected individuals with weak immune system take longer to heal. Surgery may also be an option if the damage is extensive.
33621	Physicians usually recommend the use of Parenteral penicillin.
33622	Treponema pallidum may be treated with penicillin and other antibiotics. In the course of treatment, constant blood tests are necessary to ensure that the infection has been cured.
33623	Intestinal infections can be treated with Mebendazole or albendazole; there is no specific treatment however, for trichinosis once the larvae have penetrated the muscles. Pain killers may be taken to relieve muscle soreness.
33624	Infections in the intestine can be treated with Mebendazole or albendazole; however, there is no specific treatment for trichinosis once the larvae have penetrated the muscles. Muscle soreness may be relieved by pain killers.
33625	The infection can be cured using the antibiotic metronidazole. Patients are advised not to drink any alcohol for 48 hours while taking the medicine since it can cause severe nausea and vomiting. Sexual intercourse should also be avoided until treatment is completed. Even if they have no symptoms, sexual partners should also undergo treatment.
33626	The disease has no known cure but there are available supportive treatments. Tube feedings of nutritional supplements, suctioning and postural drainage to remove pharyngeal secretions, skin care to prevent pressure ulcers in bedridden children, and mild laxatives to relieve neurogenic constipation are among the supportive treatments available to affected individuals.
33627	Experts do not agree on the use of medication for the treatment of Trichotillomania but nalrexone and selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) have been found effective in reducing some of the symptoms. Other options include behavioral therapy and habit reversal.
33628	Babies with the disorder are immediately admitted to the neonatal intensive care unit (NICU) where a breathing machine (ventilator) may be used. Prostaglandin E1 is then used to maintain blood circulation in the body.
33629	There are several medications that patients may take to reduce the pain and the rate of attacks. Among those are anti-epilepsy drugs such as carbamazepine, gabapentin, and phenytoin, migraine medicines such as sumatripan, and tricyclic antidepressants like amitriptyne, nortriptyne, or carbamezepine. In some cases, patients may need surgery.
33630	The most effective treatment for the disease is by cortisone injections.
33631	Limiting activities that may aggravate the condition is the first step to recover from the disorder. In some cases, physicians may put a splint on the affected digit to restrict movement. Anti-inflammatory medications such as ibuprofen or naproxen may be taken when symptoms continue. Surgery is recommended if conservative measures are ineffective.
33632	Options to treat the condition is limited and there no cure available. It is still possible for people with the condition however, to lead normal lives, without the fear of being shunned because of the unpleasant odor they give off. Ways to reduce the odor include avoiding foods such as eggs, legumes, certain meats, fish, and foods containing choline, nitrogen, and sulfur, taking low doses of antibiotics to reduce the amount of bacteria in the gut, using pH 5.5 - 6.5 soaps. A study suggested that daily intake of charcoal and/or copper chlorophyllin may help individuals. The study revealed that 85% of people tested completely lost their odor while 10% partially lost their odor. Behavioral counseling and genetic counseling are also helpful.
33633	Medical treatment includes replacement of glucocortisoids in patients with known adrenal insufficiency. Those with achalasia are best managed with surgical correction while those with alacrima are managed with regular application of topical lubricants and with punctual occlusion.
33634	There is no cure for the disorder. Therefore, treatments are directed at managing the signs and symptoms.
33635	Surviving infants need palliative care. It is the only means to manage the disease since there really is no cure for triploid. Nourishment, warmth, and comfort should be given to the infant since surgical correction of birth defects is not suggested since the disease has a lethal nature. Pregnant mothers can choose to abort the pregnancy but for those who want to go on with it, the mother should be monitored for pre-eclampsia and hyperthyroidism.
33636	For surviving infants, palliative care is the only means to manage the disease since there really is no cure for triploid. Warmth, nourishment, and comfort should be given to the infant since surgical correction of birth defects is not suggested since the disease has a lethal nature. Pregnant mothers can choose to terminate the pregnancy but for those who want to go on with it, the mother should be monitored for pre-eclampsia and hyperthyroidism.
33637	There is no cure for the disease and medical care is supportive. Treatment of infections should be continuous. For feedings problems, nasogastric and gastrostomy supplementation should be done. Surgical repair of severe congenital anomalies such as esophageal atresia or congenital heart defects is not seen to improve the survival rate of infants.
33638	The condition cannot be cured. Treatment is focused on detecting and treating complications such as heart defects, gastrointestinal problems, and hearing problems. Therapy may also help in the child's development such as helping the child learn to roll over, sit up, and walk. Therapy also helps with the child's feeding, hand coordination, and language skills.
33639	Careful history and examination are done to rule out metastasis (spread to other organs) after the initial diagnosis. Just like other forms of cancer, chemotherapy is the treatment of choice and a hysterectomy is rarely required.
33640	To treat the disease, careful history and examination are done to rule out metastasis (spread to other organs) after the initial diagnosis. Just like any other form of cancer, chemotherapy is the treatment of choice and a hysterectomy is rarely required.
33641	Treatment for the disease starts with plenty of fluids and electrolytes. Replacing folate, iron, vitamin B12, and other nutrients may also be needed. During the beginning of the treatment, antibiotic therapy with tetracycline may be done. Children however are not advised to take oral tetracycline especially if the permanent teeth have not yet appeared. This is because the medicine can discolor the teeth while forming.
33642	Treatments vary on the type of Trypanophobia affecting the patient but there are also general ways if the type does not fall on any of the four types. One is using local anesthetic injections, ethyl chloride spray, tropical anesthetic creams, and jet injectors. Other options include Iontophoresis, behavioral therapy, using laughing gas and inhalation general anesthesia.
33643	There is a standard treatment for the first stage of the disease, first is intravenous pentamidine and second is intravenous suramin. Just this year, the drug Eflornithine was found safe and can be used to treat first-line sleeping sickness. For the second stage, using melarsoprol at 2.2 mg/kg daily for 10 days is utilized.
33644	If no CNS symptoms persist, West African trypanososmiasis can ve treated with Pentamidine. Other medications include Suramin, Eflornithine and for those manifesting CNS symptoms, the use of Melarsoprol is recommended. As soon as an infected person's laboratory result is available, treatment must immediately follow and periodic follow-up exams such as a spinal tap may be performed.
33645	Treatment is the disease is aimed at curing the infection with antitubercular drugs. Among those drugs are Amikacin, Ethambutol, Ethionamide, Isoniazid, Para-aminosalicylic acid, Pyrazinamide, Rifampicin, and Streptomycin. The daily oral doses last 6 months to 1 year. For those suffering from atypical or drug-resistant strains, treatment usually starts with a minimum of three drugs. Admitting the patient to the hospital is also an option to prevent spreading the disease to others until the infectious period is over.
33646	In treating Tuberculous meningitis, systemic steroids may be used. The use of several antitubercular drugs is also included in the treatment, just like in pulmonary tuberculosis. Treatment also lasts for at least 12 months.
33647	Antibiotics are used to kill the TB-causing bacteria. The most popular and commonly used antibiotics are rifampicin and isoniazid. But since TB requires longer periods of treatment, usually from 6 to 12 months, a combination of several antibiotics is an option. The use of Rifampicin and isoniazid however are not recommended for use to treat laten tuberculosis since there are high rates of reported cases about detah and liver injury associated with the combined use of said drugs.
33648	There is no specific treatment for tuberous sclerosis. Treatment is specific to the symptoms. Medications are required for controlling seizures, which is often difficult. The need for special schooling or care is determined by the severity of mental retardation. Adenoma sebaceum (small growths) on the face may be removed by laser treatment. These lesions tend to recur and repeat treatments will be necessary. Rhabdomyomas commonly disappear after puberty, so surgery is usually not necessary. Regular ultrasound checks of the kidneys are an important screening tool for adults, to make sure there is no tumor growth.
33649	Treatment of tularemia is aimed at curing the infection using antibiotic. The most commonly used antibiotics are Streptomycin and tetracycline. The use of gentramycin once daily has also been tried with excellent results but only a few cases have been studied.
33650	Tularemia (deliberate release) may be treated pharmacologically. The most frequently recommended medication is Streptomycin. Other drugs used in treating this infection include: gentamicin, tetracycline-class drugs, fluoroquinolones, or chloramphenicol. An experimental live vaccine has been made available recently, but it is only used in high risk groups. Also, it is not recommended for treating the infection post-exposure.
33651	Tummy ache can resolve without treatment depending on what caused the pain. Severe cases however need to be attended with medications, antibiotics and even surgery in order to stop abdominal pain.
33652	Several options are available to treat Tungiasis. Among those are cryotherapy, similar to the procedure for warts, application of topical medicine, use of anti-parasitic drugs, petrolatum solution, and removal by forcep. A minor surgery may be performed if the flea is engorged with blood and cannot be removed by a forcep.
33653	Treating the disease early improves the chance of a good outcome. The goals however, vary. It could be to cure the tumor, relieve symptoms, and improve brain function or the child's comfort. For most primary brain tumors, surgery is necessary and some tumors may be completely removed. Radiation therapy and chemotherapy may also be performed. Among children, corticosteroids such as dexamethasone may be used to reduce brain swelling.
33654	Children with Turner syndrome may be helped by a growth hormone to help them become taller. For girls, estrogen replacement therapy is often done at age 12 or 13. The procedure will help trigger the growth of breasts, pubic hair, and other sexual characteristics. Grown women who wish to conceive may consider using a donor egg.
33655	There are various therapies used to treat TTTS and each has varying rates of success. Serial amniocentesis is the oldest and most traditional treatment, which involves periodically draining amniotic fluid from around the recipient twin in an effort to reduce the pressure of the amniotic fluid. When performed early in pregnancy, it increases the risk of premature delivery and it has limited success. The disease can also be treated by surgery during pregnancy. Using fetoscopy, interconnectiong blood vessels find interconnecting blood vessels. A laser beam can also used to coagulate the blood in the vessels. The procedure is called tetoscopic laser ablation and is performed in a few hospitals all over the world. The outcome of different procedures widely varies from case to case and has an overall survival rate of 50-60 percent.
33656	Treatment for the disease can be done by a liver transplant procedure.
33657	Intravenous fluids and electrolytes may be given to patients as well as appropriate antibiotics to kill the bacteria. Throughout the world, there is an increasing resistance to antibiotics and with that, choosing the appropriate antibiotic should be carefully done.
33658	A complete blood count or CBC may show anemia and low platelets. Other blood tests may reveal low sodium level, low level of albumin, mildly high liver enzymes, mild kidney failure, and high level of typhus antibodies.
33659	Treatment for the different types of tyrosinemia varies. It is typical though for patients to undergo a low protein diet. Recent experience with NTBC has been found to be very effective. A full or partial live transplant is said to be the most effective treatment for tyrosinemia patients.
33660	The only known treatment for classic galactosemia is getting rid of lactose and galactose from the diet. Some individuals affected with the disease still experience long-term complications even with an early diagnosis and a restricted diet. Among those complications are speech difficulties, learning disabilities, neurological impairments and in girls, ovarian failure. Diagnosis: In the United States, infants are now routinely screened for galactosemia. The diagnosis is made while the person is still an infant.
33661	Treatment relies on palliative care but the only hope of extended survival is surgery, which includes cardiac transplantation.
33663	The condition is treated by killing the bacteria and reducing the level of acid in the digestive system to relieve pain and encourage healing by using at least two medications such as antibiotic medications, acid blockers, antacids, proton pump inhibitors, and cytoprotective agents. If the bacteria are not present, the condition may be caused by NSAIDs, which should be stopped; or acid reflux, which can cause esophageal ulcers. Both cases call for reduced acid levels in the body by using acid blockers, antacids, or proton pump inhibitors, or cytoprotective drugs.
33664	The condition is treated by killing the bacteria and reducing the level of acid in the digestive system to relieve pain and encourage healing by using at least two medications such as antibiotic medications, acid blockers, antacids, proton pump inhibitors, and cytoprotective agents. If the bacteria are not present, the condition may be caused by NSAIDs, which should be stopped; or acid reflux, which can cause esophageal ulcers. Both cases call for reduced acid levels in the body by using acid blockers, antacids, or proton pump inhibitors, or cytoprotective drugs.
33665	The condition is primarily treated by reducing the pressure through frequent change of position, using support surfaces, cleaning, removal of damaged tissue, application of dressings, hydrotherapy, and a healthy diet. The condition may also require surgery to improve the hygiene and appearance of the sore, prevent or treat infection, reduce fluid loss through the wound, and lower the risk of future cancer.
33666	The condition is treated by killing the bacteria and reducing the level of acid in the digestive system to relieve pain and encourage healing by using at least two medications such as antibiotic medications, acid blockers, antacids, proton pump inhibitors, and cytoprotective agents. If the bacteria are not present, the condition may be caused by NSAIDs, which should be stopped; or acid reflux, which can cause esophageal ulcers. Both cases call for reduced acid levels in the body by using acid blockers, antacids, or proton pump inhibitors, or cytoprotective drugs.
33667	Controlling acute attacks, preventing repeated attacks and helping cure the colon are the goals of treating Ulcerative colitis. For severe attacks, hospitalization may be required and coticosteroids may be prescribed to lessen inflammation. Among the medications used to decrease the frequency of attacks include 5-aminosalicylates such as mesalamine and immunomodulators such as azathioprine and 6-mercaptopurine. Infliximab, an intravenous medicine, has also been found to improve symptoms of the disorder.
33670	There is a report that daily doses of biotin can make the hair more pliable and easier to comb but there really is no certified treatment for UHS. The said treatment did not restore the proper shape of the hair. Studies however also say that it' not uncommon for the condition to reverse itself automatically as the person ages.
33672	Treatment for Upington disease varies with the patient's age. Infants younger than 3 months may undergo gentle manipulation to reduce the dislocation. A splint-brace may also be used, which the infant will use for 2 to 3 months. A night splint is then used for another month to tighten the joint capsule.
33673	Treatment includes administration of antibiotics, complete rests, increased in fluids.
33674	Radiographs, CT scans and MRIs can help diagnose Urachal Cancer.
33677	Balance dietary protein intake Supplementation of special amino acid formulas especially developed for urea cycle disorders Blood tests to monitor the disorder and optimize treatment Liver transplants for severe cases Hospitalization to control the disorder
33678	Uremia treatment is directed to quickly correct the cause before the kidney becomes damaged. Patients often need to stay in the hospital and may need treatment in an ICU. Hemodialysis or peritoneal dialyses are options. To increase blood volume, intravenous fluids including blood or blood products may be used. Dopamine, dobutamine, and other heart medications may be taken by patients once blood volume is restored.
33679	Treatment includes surgical removal of the kidney that has cancer cells, undergoin chemotherapy and radiation therapy.
33680	Treatment includes suprapubic catheter to help the bladder to drain trough the abdomen; dilation of the urethra is also advised and cystoscopic visual urethrotomy and urethroplasty may be performed to treat the medical condition.
33681	Treatment includes hormone replacement therapy, administration of antispasmodicsm muscle relaxants, behavioral therapy and dietary therapy.
33682	Treatment includes administration of clotrimazole, doxcycline, fluconazole, nitrofurantoin and nystatin.
33683	The overactive bladder problem is treated to alleviate the symptoms through behavioral interventions, and medications. Some individuals with severe cases may require surgery.
33685	Relieving existing symptoms and preventing further symptoms are the goals of treating Urinary calculi. Treatment of the disease depends on the type of stone and the severity of the symptoms. Urine should be strained, the stone saved and tested to determine the type when the stone passes. To control or ease the pain, pain relievers may be taken. Narcotic analgesics however might be needed for more sever pain. Doctors may prescribe medication to decrease stone formation, but this is still dependent on the type of stone.
33686	Behavioural techniques: pelvic floor muscle exercise, bladder training, scheduled toilet trips, diet and fluid management Medications: anticholinergic (antispasdomic) drugs, imipramine, antibiotics Electrical stimulation: used to strengthen pelvic floor muscles Medical devices: urethral inserts, pessary Surgery: artificial urinary sphincter, bulking material injections, sacral nerve stimulator, sling procedure, bladder neck suspension. Absorbent pads and catheters
33687	There is no need to treat urinary incontinence in children as most cases usually fades away naturally. In some cases though, medications are given as treatment. Medications to increase ADH levels are given like Desmopressin. Imipramine is also given as treatment for sleepwetting.
33688	Treatment for urinary retention will include catheterization, medication and surgery may also be necessary
33689	Treatment includes undergoing chemotherapy and radiation therapy.
33690	Oral antibiotics for uncomplicated UTI Hospitalization and IV antibiotics for severe cases of UTI and may be referred to a urologist or nephrologist
33690	Antibiotics are the common treatment of urinary tract infection. These medications may vary in strength and duration and symptoms usually clear up after a couple of days.
33692	Your doctor will concentrate on treating discolored urine since it has no specific treatment.
33693	Treatment includes urinary catherizatopm and undergoing suprapubic cystostomy .
33696	Treatment of the disease poses a challenge for medical doctors as no single medication has been proven to control or cure it. Some types of the disorder are resistant to treatment, while in long-term cases, drugs could lose their effectiveness. The welts could also disappear without treatments. It is therefore particularly useful to identify to triggers, and avoid exposure to these substances.
33697	The disease has no permanent cure but treatments are possible. Anti-allergy medications are generally useful since they reduce the mast cell's ability to react to histamine. There is a clinical study suggesting that nifidepine, an anti-hypertensive medicine, may reduce mast cell degranulation in patients with urticaria pigmentosa. The said medicine however had never been approved by the FDA to treat the disease.
33698	There is no known treatment to prevent urticarial attacks. To correct deafness, hearing aids may be used.
33699	There is currently no cure for Usher syndrome. Early identification for now, is the best treatment since it allows children to be involved in education programs as soon as possible. The use of hearing aids, assistive listening devices, cochlear implants, or other communication methods such as American Sign Language; orientation and mobility training; and communication services and independent-living training that may include Braille instruction, low-vision services, or auditory training, are also considered as essential aspects of treatment. Though not a cure, a high dose of vitamin A palmitate may slow down the progression of RP. This is according to a long-term clinical trial supported by the National Eye Institute and the Foundation for Fighting Blindness.
33700	There is no cure yet for the disorder and since it is a result of a loss of gene, gene therapy may improve it. That is the added protein becomes functional. Mouse models on recent studies have shown that replacing the mutant gene with a lentivirus can alleviate the situation. However, Usher syndrome encodes very large proteins, making gene replacement therapy a difficult procedure to take on.
33701	Treatment depends on the severity of the cancer but the most common treatment is usually a hysterectomy that removes the uterus. Other treatments are hormone therapy, radiation therapy and chemotherapy.
33701	Treatment for uterine cancer almost always involves surgery, which may include hysterectomy, or surgical removal of the uterus, or hysterectomy with bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy, which pertains to the removal of the uterus, fallopian tubes and ovaries. Lymph nodes near the cancerous mass may also be removed during surgery. Other treatment options for aggressive uterine cancer include: radiation, hormone therapy, and chemotherapy.
33702	Uterine fibroids do not usually require treatment but if it becomes problematic surgery and medications is needed. Such treatments include hysterectomy, hormonal therapy or uterine artery embolization and HIFU (high intensity focused ultrasound).
33702	In general, uterine fibroids do not really require any treatment as it is noncancerous. Perhaps the best treatment approach is early detection and awareness of one's condition. In advanced cases that may cause a degree of discomfort, a surgical procedure may be performed to remove the growths.
33703	Uterine growths can be treated with birth control pills. An artificial hormone called danazol is also given to patients in order to stop menstrual flow. When medications don't work, surgical removal called laparoscopy is done to clean out the growths in the uterine passage.
33704	Among the most common forms of treatment for uterine prolapse include losing weight, as well as smoking. Lifestyles changes are important and a vaginal pessary can be used to help hold the uterus in place.
33705	If the patient do not suffer from any symptoms of a double uterus, in most cases treatment may not be required. However, a surgical procedure can be performed for partial division of the uterus.
33706	Typically, Uveitis is treated with glucocorticoid steroids either as topical eyedrops or oral therapy. Topical cycloplegics such as atropine or homatropine may also be used. Methotrexate as well as other antimetabolic medications meanwhile is often used for recalcitrant or more aggressive cases. It may also be helpful to have an experimental treatment with Infliximab infusions.
33707	Prescription eye drops in combination with anti-inflammatory drugs are the usual treatment for Uveitis. The treatment may take several days or weeks.
33708	Warm compresses and painkillers help relieve discomfort. Eye drops such as Isopto ophthalmic solution along with steroid eye drops are usually given to affected individuals until the symptoms are resolved.
33709	A treatment plan can be developed once the birth defects have been identified. Medical treatment or surgery may be immediately required for patients with esophageal atresia, tracheoesophageal fistula, or heart defects. In some cases, surgery can wait until the child is older. Children with arm, leg, or spine problems may need physical or occupational therapy.
33711	Vaginal cancer is almost always treated with surgery. Surgical options for females with vaginal carcinoma are: removal of small tumors or lesions; vaginectomy or removal of the vagina; as well as pelvic exenteration or removal of the majority of pelvic organs. Radiation therapy, either external radiation or internal radiation, may also be recommended.
33711	Before any treatment approach is made, it is important to determine the underlying causes of cancer as well as the type and the stage of the cancer. Most often, a surgical procedure is performed to remove any small tumors and lesions or the entire vagina even. Radiation therapy may also be required.
33712	For patients with no symptoms, treatment may not be necessary. However, for people who suffer from the symptoms, the most common treatment is estrogen supplements that are topically applied in the vaginal area. Other options include vaginal suppositories and estrogen therapy.
33713	Treatment includes application of over the counter creams such as miconazole or clotrimazole. Cranberry juice and yogurt are said to be useful in preventing the yeast infections.
33714	Pelvic inflammatory disease can be treated with antibiotics. Intravenous antibiotics are administered to severe cases, while oral doses of doxycycline, metronidazole and intramuscular ceftriaxone are given to milder cases. Laparoscopy is thus done when surgery is required to treat the patient.
33715	Treatments for vaginal dryness include vaginal estrogen creams; these are topical medications that helps promote the natural lubrication of the vagina. The vaginal estrogen ring is also a known alternative. This is a flexible ring that is inserted to the vagina by doctors. The ring releases consistent dosage of estrogen and usually requires replacement after three months.
33716	Treatment includes vaginal fistulas, laparoscopic surgery through the abdomen or vagina.
33717	Treatment of vaginismus is a combination of education, counseling, and behavioral exercises. Exercises include pelvic floor muscle contraction and relaxation. Said routine is called the Kegel exercise. Using plastic dilators, vaginal dilation exercises are also performed. This procedure however should be done in the presence of a sex therapist or other health care provider. Sex therapy should also involve the partner. Counseling meanwhile should include information about sexual anatomy, the sexual response cycle, and common myths about sex.
33718	Bacterial vaginosis: physician may prescribe metronidazole or clindamycin as tablets, vaginal creams or gels. Yeast infections: antifungal cream or suppository, oral antifungal medication. Even though, medicines for this infection can be bought over the counter it still best to visit the doctor for proper prescription. Thrichomoniasis: prescribed medicine metronidazole tablets Atrophic vaginitis: estrogen (vaginal creams, tablets or rings) which is prescribed by the doctor Noninfectious vaginitis: must pinpoint the cause of irritation and avoid it
33718	The treatment for vaginitis will greatly depend on the type and cause of the vaginitis. Most often, medications are topically applied to provide relief and protect the vagina from further irritation and infection.
33720	Bed rest and fluids for acute valley fever Prescirbed antifungal medication like fluconazole and itraconazoleif there are complications
33720	Those with acute valley fever often do not require treatment. Even with severe symptoms, affected individuals are often advised to get a bed rest and take lots of fluids. The approach is the same as when treating colds and flu but doctors still carefully monitor people with valley fever. If the patient is at increased risk of complications and symptoms become worse, the doctor may prescribe an antifungal medication such as fluconazole. People who are high-risk and those with chronic or disseminated disease are also prescribed with antifungal medications.
33721	Those with cleft lip and cleft palate may require surgery. Even to individuals who are severely affected, surgical excision of lip pits is usually performed to alleviate the discomfort or for cosmetic reasons.
33725	Physicians may test the blood, urine, and spinal fluid of the newborn if physical examination shows signs of TORCH syndrome. Culture of the specific pathogens or increased levels of IgM against the pathogen can confirm the diagnosis.
33726	Application of calamine lotion and other antipruritic medications are typically used along with soothing baths with the addition of oatmeal and Benadryl PO. New studies have also demonstrated the effectiveness of post-exposure immunization in preventing the development of the disease. Active immunization is also recommended.
33727	The treatment approach for VZV is based on certain predisposing conditions such as age, the duration of the symptoms, immune state, and presentation. Antiviral medications are prescribed, usually on the first two days of infection.
33728	Treatment includes the use of scrotal support and surgery called varicocelectomy to vorrect the varicocele in some cases.
33729	Simple treatments include exercising, losing weight, avoid wearing tight clothes and shoes, avoid using heels and avoid prolonged standing and sitting. For severe cases treatment include sclerotherapy, laser surgeries, catheter-assisted procedures, vein stripping, ambulatory phlebectomy and endoscopic vein surgery. Make sure that you consult a specialist before undergoing any procedures.
33729	Treatment for varicose veins includes scleotherapy which involves the injection of a solution in the affected veins. Laser surgeries may also be an option to eliminate the unsightly appearance of spider veins.
33730	Treatment of the disease has risks. Affected individuals must avoid hazardous medications especially since most of the drugs used are inducers of hepatic cytochrome P450. It is prudent to minimize exposure to factors known to induce attacks and one of the ways to do it of avoiding carbohydrate-restricted diets, moderate alcohol intake and ceasing to smoke.
33731	There is no available cure for smallpox, although an antiviral medication called cidofovir can help prevent smallpox if it is administered a day or two from the exposure. A vaccination against small pox is an effective preventive measure to prevent the spread of the virus.
33733	Unfortunately, there is no known cure for vascular dementia. There are certain medications that are specifically designed to manage the symptoms such as Cholinesterase inhibitors.
33735	Treatment of Vasculitis is targeted to the underlying cause. Most vasculitis in general are however treated with steroids such as methylprednisolone since the underlying cause of vasculitis is due to hyperactive immunological damage. Cyclophosphamide and azathioprine are among the immunosuppresants given to some patients.
33736	Eliminating the cause of vasculitis is the most important part of the treatment. Some patients find taking antihistamines useful. Immunosuppressive agents are suggested if the vasculitis is damaging systems such as the kidneys.
33737	Treatment includes administration of medicines that are design to relax the vessels, resting and oxygen therapy.
33738	Treatment is focused on avoidance of triggers, restoring blood flow to the brain during an impending episode, and interrupting or preventing the pathophysiologic mechanisms.
33739	Infants with this kind of condition is treated after birth with features being addresses one at a time. Thus, its treatment would depend on what feature of the condition is prevalent at birth. For example in cases of babies having anal defects as feature of the vater association, most commonly the doctors will take note of such condition and often will suggest and even require surgery on the first day of life inasmuch as sometimes,it will require several surgeries to fully reconstruct the intestines and anal canal of the infant. However, some feature of the Vater Association need not require surgery like those manifesting esophageal defects and those infants with vertebral anomalies although it may put the child at risk for developing scoliosis or the curving of the spine in the future.
33740	Treatment is usually symptomatic. Antibiotics are often administered to patients with antibiotics. Cardiac Surgery is also advised for person with heart abnormalities. Vitamin D treatment is usually required to person with hypoparathyroidism which causes hypocalcaemia. Thymus transplantation is also administered in person having the compelete symptoms of the syndrome itself (.Markert ML, Devlin BH, Alexieff MJ, et al (2007). "Review of 54 patients with complete DiGeorge anomaly enrolled in protocols for thymus transplantation: outcome of 44 consecutive transplants". Blood 109 (10): 4539-47).
33741	Pharyngeal Flap Surgery is the most common method to treat velopharyngeal insufficiency whereby the tissue from the back of the mouth is used to close the part of the gap. Placing posterior nasopharyngeal wall implant through the use of cartilage or collagen or through soft palate lengthening procedure or VY palatoplasty.
33742	There are certain medications that can help treat the genital warts. These are topical medications that can help boost the immune system and help fight the warts. Surgery can also be an option to remove the warts.
33744	Standard therapies include implantation of an implantable cardioverted defibrillator. A precodial thump can also be used to regain cardiac function. Other treatment includes administration of agents like amiodarone or lidocaine.
33746	Treatment depends on the extent of the opening due to the VSD. Small congenital VSD often close on its own as the heart grows. On the other hand in cases requiring surgical intervention, a heart-lung machine is required and a median sternotomy is performed. Percutaneous endovascular procedure which is less invasive is also used. Administration of Digoxin and Frusemide are also used to treat VSD.
33747	Treatment includes Ocular Cromolyn which is said to give beneficial effects within one week of initiating therapy. Nedocromil is also administered (Lieberman,Anderson and John (2006). Allergic Diseases: Diagnosis and Treatment, p. 374)
33748	Treatment is done by avoidance of walking barefooted, as well as topical medications such as salicylic acid. Severe stages of veruccas may require surgical removal.
33749	Treatment includes surgical treatment as well as adminstration of medicinal treatment to relieve the patient of the underlying symptoms.
33750	Treatment includes administration of medicines and undergoing therapies designed to correct and relieve the patient from the underlying symptoms.
33751	Treatments includes adminstration of antibiotics and fluid replacement therapies. In extreme cases reconstructive surgery may be used.
33752	Treatment includes administration of antibiotics such as ampicilling and fluid replacement therapy.
33753	Treatment includes administration of undergoing therapies that are designed to lessen the infection such as administration of antibiotics such as doxycycline.
33754	Treatment includes administration of antibiotic and using mouthwash frequently to resolve the infection and using Metronidazole.
33755	The treatment for this condition includes medications that will inhibit the growth of bacteria and prevent the infection from spreading. Pain relievers are also given to help relieve pain. Patients are advised to resume good hygiene habits.
33757	Treatment of the water and electrolyte abnormalities are the first to be addressed as this will help stop or hasten the diarrhea and dehydration. Administration of Octreotide can also be used to temper symptoms.
33758	Treatment includes IV or fluid replacement, administration of antimotility agents such as loperamide and antibiotic therapy.
33759	Treatment for viral exanthem is not necessary as it will just go away naturally. But in other cases though, administration of medicines like antibiotics are given if it manifests infections caused by other organisms like bacteria.
33760	There is no particular cure for viral gastroenteritis. Antibiotics are not of help because overusing it can cause viruses to be resistant to it. Self-care tips are the best way to prevent viral gastroenteritis.
33760	There is no particular cure for viral gastroenteritis. Antibiotics are not of help because overusing it can cause viruses to be resistant to it. Self-care tips are the best way to prevent viral gastroenteritis.
33760	Treatment includes administration of antibiotic to restrain and lessen the bacteria. It may also include fluid replacement therapy to replace loss fluid in the body and administration of anti-diarrhea medicines such as loperamide.
33761	Patients often receive some form of supportive therapy. However, generally speaking, there is actually no other treatment or form of established cure for viral hemorrhagic fever. Many scientists and medical researchers are faced with the challenge of developing containment, vaccine and treatment strategies for these diseases.
33762	Treatment often includes antiviral therapy with intravenous ribavirin which is usually useful in Bunyaviridae and Arenaviridae infections and can be used only under an experimental protocol as US FDA approved investigational new drug.
33763	Treatment includes undergoing therapy such as increase intake of fluids and administration of medicines that is design to alleviate the symptoms.
33764	Treatment is made through administration of antibiotics and corticosteroids are also advised.
33766	Oral form of treatment is vitamin A supplementation. Other treatments are food fortification and dietary diversification where in the intake of vitamin A rich animal foods are increased.
33766	Treatment includes administration of oral and injectable forms of Vitamin A.
33767	Treatment includes withholding vitamin A supplements.
33768	Treatment includes administration of Vitamin B6 supplement.
33769	Treatment includes taking vitamin B supplements and changing diet that is rich in vitamin B.
33770	Treatment includes Vitamin B12 replacement and Vitamin B12 therapy or diet. Administration of Vitamin B12 supplements is also advised.
33771	Treatment includes administration of ascorbic acid supplements, and changing into a diet that is rich in vitamin C.
33772	Treatment includes oral administration of Vitamin D supplements at least 50,000 IU per week.
33773	Treatment includes withholding of vitamin D intake.
33774	Treatment of Vitamin D Resistant Rickets consists of administration of Vitamin D. Physician also do require Vitamin D therapy however, a close observation of the patient is required since over dosage of Vitamin D may result to hypercalcemia.
33775	Since this medical condition is primarily to provide supplements for the anemia. This includes vitamin supplements, as well as changes in the diet.
33776	Oral administration of Vitamin E supplement are advised to person having this kind of medical condition. Injection also of larger doses are also administered.
33777	It is said that the only treatment for this kind of medical condition is through replacement of vitamin E with a water0soluble supplement either oral or parenteral. Diet which includes foods with high vitamin E like vegetable oils , whole grains, dark green leafy vegetables also said to help in treating the deficiency.
33778	Treatment may include withholding of vitamin E intake and administration of medicines and therapies to alleviate the manifested symptoms.
33779	Treatment includes increasing consumption of food that is rich in vitamin D, consultations with a gastroenteritis and hematologist to correct the symptoms and changing diet that must include green leafy vegetables, olive oil, soybean which are rich in vitamin K.
33780	Early treatments includes exposure to intense narrow-band UVB therapy (Tanghetti EA (2003). "Tacrolimus ointment 0.1% produces repigmentation in patients with vitiligo: results of a prospective patient series". Cutis; cutaneous medicine for the practitioner 71 (2): 158-62) Oral intake of trimethylpsoralen and adminsitration of corticosteroid creams, Immuno suppressant like pimecrolumus and tacrolimus and by the use of repigmenting agents such as the methoxsalen or the oxsoralen (Kwinter J, Pelletier J, Khambalia A, Pope E (2007). "High-potency steroid use in children with vitiligo: a retrospective study". J. Am. Acad. Dermatol. 56 (2): 236-41).
33781	Corticosteroids are the most common treatment for patients presenting bilateral retinol detachments. High Dose steroids or intravenous methyl-prednisolone followed by an oral taper may also be required.
33782	Management involves avoiding fasting, maintaining high carbohydrate intake and treating episodes of acute diseasewith glucose-containing intravenous fluids. Medium chain triglycerides whose oxidation does not involve VLCAD can be administered to provide calories but should never ve used until the diagnosis of VLCAD deficiency is certain.
33783	The treatment approach for vocal cord paralysis can greatly vary depending on the cause, as well as the severity of the condition and symptoms. The treatment plan may include voice therapy and surgery or even both.
33784	Treatment includes frequent feeding of food in high glucose or starch which is readily digested to become glucose. Strict diet to compensate the liver of inability to provide sugar is also advice.
33785	Medical treatment depends on which tumors the person has. Surgical removal of tumors are also used (Bushan,V., et al. (2002) Blackwell's Underground Clinical Vignettes, Blackwell Publishing, p. 35). Complete and regular physical examination including undergoing Magnetic Resonance Imaging or MRI and CT Scan are also advised for person having the condition.
33786	Therapy includes radiation therapy, chemotherapy, surgical resection or through decompression of the lesion and third face transplant.
33787	Treatment includes no regular treatment however, prophylactic treatment is often given to patients with this kind of medical condition who are scheduled for surgery. It can also be treated with human derived medium purity factor VIII. Desmopressin is also administered to person with mild VWD.
33789	Possible surgical interventions for treating vulvar cancer include: laser surgery, excision, vulvectomy, pelvic exenteration, and lymph node removal. Other treatment techniques that may be used are radiation therapy and chemotherapy. In some cases, reconstructive surgery may be required to replace the skin removed from the vulva.
33790	Treatment includes administration of over the counter cortisone creams, administration of antibiotic for possible infections and biopsy of the skin to rule out other chronic diseases such as the vulvar dystropy and dysplasia.
33791	Treatment of this medical condition varies from one person to another. It, however , includes the following medication and care: vulvar care measure such as avoidance of synthetic underwear and avoidance of vulvar irritants and frequently wearing cotton made underwear; Medication whether oral or injectable of anaesthetics,estrogens, tricyclic antidepressants; a low oxalate diet; biofeedback and physical therapy and for some surgical procedure like the vestibulectomy where the inverted fibers are excised. Such surgical procedure is said to be successful in treating vulvodyna (Stewart, Elizabeth; Paula Spencer (2002). The V Book: A Doctor's Guide to Complete Vulvovaginal Health. Bantam Trade Paperback, pp. 297-328).
33792	Treatment often includes oral or topical antibiotics and or including antifungal creams, antibacterial creams or other similar medications to relieve irritation. Oral administration of antihistamine are also prescribed to thos have allergic reaction. Topical estrogen is also prescribed to women who have irritation and inflammation (Brook I: Microbiology and management of polymicrobial female genital tract infections in adolescents. J Pediatr Adolesc Gynecol 2002;15(4):217).
33793	At present there is no known treatment for Waardenburg syndrome. The deafness associated with the medical condition is treated just like any other irreversible deafness. Other effect of the medical condition is treated symptomatically.
33794	There is no known treatments for Waardenburg Syndrome Pierpoint. Medication and treatment are usually based on the symptoms as they occur.
33801	Treatment includes medication and procedure advised by an opthalmologists, audiologists and rheumatologists.
33802	Treatment includes involvement of medical professionals inasmuch as the syndrome impairs more than one of the senses. It involves treatment of a craniofacial surgeons, ear-nose-throat specialist.
33803	Treatment includes surgical removal of the tumor and the medication as prescribed by ophthalmologists in case of symptoms affecting the eye.
33804	The treatment for the medical condition includes administration of monoclonal antibody rituximab and sometimes in combination with chemotherapeutic drugs such as chlorambucil, cyclophosphamide and vincristine. Administration of corticosteroids are also used. Autologous bone marrow transplant are also used to treat the condition recently.
33805	Treatment includes physical examination particularly the swollen affected part which may be the root or the cause of the Wallerian Degeneration.
33806	A t present there is no known treatment yet for the Wallis Zief Goldblatt Syndrome.
33807	The Wandering spleen is usually treated through laparoscopic surgery inasmuch as there is possibility of blocked arteries in the spleen. It also includes splenopexy, fixation of the spleen or through detorsion then splenectomy if there is no blood flow after unwinding the spleen.
33808	There is no known treatment for Warkany Syndrome especially the trisomy 8 mosaicism. Treatment for miscarriage is advised however for those which has complete trisomy 8 inasmuch as it often results to miscarriage.
33809	There are a lot of medical treatments used in order for warts to vanished among these are: keratolysis or the removal of the dead skin cells by using salicylic acid, immunomodulators and formaldehyde; Cryosurgery where the warts are freezed by liquid nitrogen thereby creating a blister between the ward and the epidermal layer making the dead skin cell fall by itself; surgical curettage of the wart is also used to treat the affected area; laser treatments; administration of Imiquimod which is a topical cream that helps the body's immune system and candida injections on the site of the wart (Horn TD, Johnson SM, Helm RM, Roberson PK (2005) Intralesional immunotherapy of warts with mumps, Candida, and Trichophyton skin test antigens. Arch Dermatol 141: 589-94) and the use of Catharidin which is a chemical found in Meloidae which causes dermal blistering. There are also over the counter medications available such as those with salicylic acid, silver nitrate in caustic pencil form. Household remedies includes various fruits and vegetables such as a bruised garlic, banana skin, unskinned potato or tomato juice, green tea and vinegar. These treatments does not guarantee fast result as it needs re-application of the medication.
33810	Treatment for water on the knee includes the removal of fluid on the knee joint. This will help relieve pressure in the area brought about by the buildup of fluid. An arthroscopic knee surgery may also be performed to repair the damage of the joint. In severe cases, a joint replacement may be required as well as help improve mobility.
33811	For mild water intoxication only fluid restriction is required. In severe cases treatment used are diuretics to increase urination, saline to restore sodium electrolyte levels and vasopressin receptor antagonists.
33812	Treatment includes routine vaccination against menigococcus for individuals who had their spleen removed or who have sickle-cell anemia which damage the spleen or to those individual who have certain immune disorders such as complement deficiency (Rosa D, Pasqualotto A, de Quadros M, Prezzi S (2004). "Deficiency of the eighth component of complement associated with recurrent meningococcal meningitis--case report and literature review". Braz J Infect Dis 8 (4): 328-30).
33813	Watermelon Stomach or the Gastric antral vascular ectasia,is treated through endoscope and argon plasma coagulation and electrocautery. Estrogen therapy and anti-fibronolytic drugs such as the tranexamic acid is also adminstered. GAVE is treated with treatment through the endoscope, including argon plasma coagulation and electrocautery. Other medical treatments have been tried and include estrogen and progesterone therapy and anti-fibrinolytic drugs such as tranexamic acid.
33815	Treatment of the medical condition varies and depends mainly on the symptoms. Usually it includes laser treatments to lighten or even to remove the birthmarks. Adminsitration of Anticonvulsant medications are used to control seizures. Frequent monitoring to the eye which is prone for glaucoma are also done and in serious cases, surgery may be performed. Physical therapy for the weak muscles are also used to treat the muscles. In some cases, doctors also advised brain surgery where the part of the brain that is affected by the disorder is removed to control seizures but nevertheless shows no guarantee that seizures will never manifest again.
33816	Treatments for the disease varies though therapeutic response with the use of fibrinolytic,tetracycline, azathioprine, hydroxychloroquine, thalidomide, cyclophosphamide, mycophenolate, and clofazimine may be effective. Systemic steroids like prednisone are also said to be effective.
33817	Treatment includes administration of corticosteroid especially during the early signs of the disease. Prednisone which is a corticosteroid may be used. Immunosuppresive drug like yclophosphamide like Cytoxan, Imuran which is a azathioprine or Rheumatrex which is methotrexate may be used if the corticosteroid is not enough.
33818	Treatment includes administration of Aetiotropic drugs such as antibiotics like doxycycline, penicillin, amoxicillin or through human vaccines, detoxification and normalization of the hydro-elecolytic balance are also used to treat the disease.
33819	This is usually with the administration of some antibiotic such as penicillin, tetracycline , streptomycin, and erythromycin. In severe cases, kidney dialysis may be required.
33819	If detected early, Weil's disease can be cured with targeted drugs. However, most physicians in urban areas may never have encountered the disease.
33820	Treatment depends on the manifestation of the syndrome which may include examination of an opthalmologists in case the eye is affected and therapies.
33821	Treatment of the disease varies according to the symptoms that manifests. It may include physical therapy, orthotic surgery and rehabilitation.
33822	Treatment varies from one person to another inasmuch as it greatly depends on the symptoms that manifest to a person. Surgical intervention and hyperbaric oxygen therapy may be used to treat refractory skin ulcers. If the eye is affected then procedures which are used to treat cataracts and contractures may be used.
33823	Treatment includes stabilizing airways and oxygenation.
33824	Treatment of the disease can be done by regular B vitamin supplements, avoidance of alcohol and constant support from loved ones. The memories do come back after a long period of time, of course with the help of treatment.
33825	The disease is treated with antibiotics and anti-inflammatory medications to reduce the swelling.
33826	Treatment includes administration of ribavirin, intravenous immunoglobulin or alpha interferon (Hayes E B, Sejvar J J, Zaki S R, Lanciotti R S, Bode A V, Campbell G L. "Virology, pathology, and clinical manifestations of West Nile virus disease." Emerging Infectious Diseases Journal 2005b; 11: 1174-1179).
33827	Treatment is often hard than any other form of epilepsy. However, ACTH are used especially in the United States and Vigabatrin or Sabril are used to treat the syndrome. These drugs however have their side effects which can range from dizziness, fatigue, weight gain to sepsis and congestive heart failure. Ketagonic diet is also advised to treat infantile spasms (Nordli Jr, Douglas R.; Maxine M. Kuroda, Joanne CarrollDagger, Dorcas Y. KoenigsbergerDagger, Lawrence J. Hirsch, Harlan J. Brunerparallel, William T. Seidel, and Darryl C. De Vivo (2002). Experience With the Ketagonic Diet in Infants. Pediatrics 108 (1).
33828	At present there is no vaccine nor any therapeutic drug s that is used to treat the infection. Antibiotics are said to be not effective against the virus. Treatment therefore are for the symptoms as they manifest.
33829	Treatment includes mainly on preventing further attacks and relieving acute symptoms. Administration of Acetazolamide or carbonic anhydrase inhibors along with a diet which avoids carbohydrate-rich meals and strenuous exercises are also advised.
33831	General avoidance to wheat products is the primary treatment for wheat allergy. It would also help to always prepare anti-allergy medications such as antihistamines for emergencies.
33832	Treatment includes diet which avoids cereals grasses with related glutens such as rye and barley and awareness to oat brands which includes wheat.
33833	Medications: over the counter medications like ibrupofen. Ice, heat and exercise Injection of corticosteroid medicine to relieve muscle spasm Cervical collars
33833	Pain relievers are the primary form of medications to help alleviate the pain. Hot and cold compress can also help the muscles and exercise to relieve stress and inflammation. In severe cases, an injection of lidocaine or corticosteroid may be administered to numb the pain and allow the patient to perform exercises that can help speed up recovery.
33834	Treatment of Whipple disease includes oral administration and maintenance of penicillin, ampicillin, tetracycline or the co-trimoxazole for at least one to two years.
33835	Treatments includes administration and use of broad-spectrum anthelminthic agents and administration of mebendazole.
33836	Treatment includes topical applications of tetracycline to treat symptoms. In rare cases, a plaque which usually extends onto the lip vermilion usually may be removed by surgery for aesthetic reasons.
33838	The disease is treated by a set of appropriate antibiotics in order to eliminate the bacteria from infesting the body.
33839	Treatment for Whitlow includes administration of acyclovir, and antibiotics.
33840	Treatment for whooping cough typically varies, on certain considerations such age as well as the severity of signs and symptoms. Early detection and treatment is important since this condition may develop to other serious complications if lest untreated.
33841	Treatment includes administration of effective antibiotic usually erythromycin or azithromycin.
33842	Treatment includes adminsitration of Desmopressin which is usually injected or nasal spray, administration of birth pills to decrease menstrual blood loss. Other physicians also advised aminocaproic acid or tranexamic acid which is antifibrinolytic drug that can reduce bleeding.
33843	There is no regular treatment for the disease hence, person infected usually are at risk for bleeding. Prophylactic treatment is given to patients who will undergo surgery (Mannucci PM. (2004) Treatment of Von Willebrands Disease. N.Engl. J Med, 351:683-94).
33844	There is no known cure for the Williams Syndrome nor a particular treatment inasmuch the treatment usually depends on the symptoms manifesting from one person to another. However it is said that person which this medical condition needs regular cardiovascular monitoring for other potential problems such as narrowing of the blood vessels, high blood pressure and heart failure which may be manifestations of the sickness.
33845	Treatment includes surgical removal of the tumor and the medication as prescribed by ophthalmologists in case of symptoms affecting the eye.
33846	Treatment usually depends on the stage of the Willm's tumor. It usually includes chemotherapy, radiation. Biologic therapy or combination of both.
33847	Treatment includes medication that tends to decrease the copper absorption or remove excess of copper in the body. Occasionally, a liver transplant is also advised. It is also treated with a regular and even life long use of chelating agents such as the used of penicillamine, trientine hydrochloride or tetrathiomolybdate. Taking zinc supplements are also adviced to block the intestine's absorption of copper.
33848	Physical therapy is recommended to help correct the scapula's posterior posture.
33849	The disease can be treated with antibiotics. Proper health and sanitation procedures should be practiced to prevent the onset of the disease.
33850	Treatment of Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome would vary and greatly depends on the symptoms. However, in cases where there are low platelet counts, a splenectomy or platelet transfusion and blood transfusion for anemia is advised. Also intravenous immunoglobulins or IVIG are advised to boost the immune system of the person.
33851	There is no treatment currently for the genetic disorder however, treatment focus on the symptoms as they manifest. Seizure which is one of the symptom of the syndrome may be treated with medications. Physical therapist may also help in maintaining the muscle strength and joint mobility.
33852	Treatment includes destruction of the abnormal electrical pathways by radiofrequency catheter ablation which is performed through cardiac electrophysiologists (Pappone C, Lamberti F, Santomauro M, Stabile G, De Simone A, Turco P, Pannain S, Loricchio ML, Rotunno R, Chiariello M (1993). "Ablation of paroxysmal tachycardia in Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome" (in Italian). Cardiologia 38 (12 Suppl 1): 189-97).
33853	There is no known treatment for the Wolfram Syndrome but treatment may focus more on the symptoms as they manifests.
33854	There is no specific treatment for the Wolman Disease though treatments may focus more on the symptoms as they manifest. In some cases blood transfusion are requires especially those that have anemia while removal of the enlarged spleen are advised.
33855	Treatment for the cancer includes surgery, chemotherapy and radiotherapy, depending on how the cancer is spread.
33856	There is no known treatment for the syndrome but there are treatments for the symptoms as they manifest.
33857	There is currently no known treatment for wooly hair and it is advised that people who has this kind of condition avoid chemical and hair treatments.
33858	Antiparasitic drugs are given to persons affected by worms, such as Antiox. Patients are also advised to practice good health and sanitation to avoid the recurrence of the parasite.
33859	Threadworms can be eliminated by the use of anti-parasitic drugs and oral treatments. Children are also advised to keep up with good hygiene practices.
33860	Treatment of the syndrome depends on the degree of the feeding and speech problems. Therapies are also advised.
33861	There are a number of medications available today to help decrease the incidence of wrinkles on the face and other parts of the body. This includes topical retinoids that help reduce wrinkles and splotchy pigmentation. There are also some wrinkle cream that does not require any prescription from the doctor. Surgical procedures and skin resurfacing techniques are also good alternatives.
33862	Treatment includes changing technique in writing, switching hands, physical therapy, biofeedback and constraint-induced motion therapy. Chemical injections such as botulinum toxin are also used in some cases (A. J. Lees, N. Turjanski, et. al. "Treatment of cervical dystonia hand spasms and laryngeal dystonia with botulinum toxin." Journal of Neurology 239 (1992): 1-4).
33864	Treatments includes administration of intravenous fusion of immunoglobulin or IVIg antibodies. Subcutaneous treatments and administration of antibiotics are also advised.
33867	Currently, there is no known treatment for the X-linked ichthyosis condition. However, treatment varies on the symptoms as they exists. Skin smoothening and relieving other symptoms like dryness and cracking of the skin may be done through the use of Lactic Acid containing lotions and creams.
33868	At present there is no cure for the syndrome itself but treatment focuses more on the therapy of behavior, special education and medications.
33870	Treatment for palpebrarum can be done cosmetically and by taking drugs that lowers lipids in the blood. If it can't be effectively treated using cosmetics and drugs, other measures may be done including cryotherapy, surgical excision, laser treatment, dissolving the xanthelasma by applying acetic acid solution which formulated specially, and electrodesiccation.
33871	Currently, there is no treatment available. However, there are treatment and maintenance needed to keep a balance fluid in the body and avoiding high purine foods.
33872	Currently, there is no treatment available for Xanthinuria . However, there are treatment and maintenance needed to keep a balance fluid in the body and avoiding high purine foods.
33873	Treatment includes treating the disease that causes the increase in the blood lipids.
33874	Treatment includes administration of chenodeoxycholic acid, a cost-effective therapy (Moghadasian, MH. Department of Human Nutritional Sciences and National Centre for Agri-food Research in Medicine, University of Manitoba, Winnipeg, Man).
33875	Treatment includes the administration and use of Isotretinoin inasmuch as it reduces the number of Keratoses (E. C. Friedberg, G. C. Walker, W. Siede, R. D. Wood, R. A. Schultz and T. Ellenberger (2006). DNA repair and mutagenesis. ASM Press, 1118). On the other hand, existing keratoses is usually treated by cryotherapy or fluorouracil. Also avoidance to sun exposure is highly advised.
33886	Treatment includes genetic testing for the Chromosome Y to developed.
33887	Treatment includes administration of penicillin, erythromycin or tetracycline.
33888	Though home remedies can treat yeast infection it is still best to consult your doctor for proper medication. Medications used are: Antimycotics - antifungal drugs like topical clotrimazole Amphotericin B, caspofungin or voriconazole (for severe cases) Local treatment - vaginal suppositories or medicated douches
33889	In as much as there is no known cure for the disease Yellow Fever, threatment therefore will focus more on the symptoms as they manifests. Fluid replacement, blood transfusion and dialysis in case of severe conditions.
33890	Treatment includes the vitamin E solution and administration of oral itraconazole. Vitamin E supplements are also advised.
33891	Chloramphenicol, streptomycin, fluoroquinolones, and tetracycline are the most common first line of defense for Yersinia infections. Gentamicin and doxycycline have also demonstrated some efficacy in treatment. However, antibiotic therapy alone may not suffice for some affected individuals, who may also need some ventilator, circulatory, or renal support depending on the severity of the disease.
33892	Treatment includes the adminsitration of streptomycin,the use of chloramphenicol, tetracycline, and fluoroquinolones. Doxycycline or gentamicin are also advised.
33895	Treatments includes surgery and chemotherapy.
33901	ZAP70 deficiency genetically inherited. It cannot be cured but gene therapy proposed.
33903	Zellweger syndrome neither has a cure nor a standard course of treatment. Infections are monitored to prevent complications such as pneumonia and respiratory distress. Other treatment is based on symptoms and only alleviate the patient's condition. Affected infants usually die at the age of 6 months that may have been caused by respiratory distress, gastrointestinal bleeding, or liver failure.
33905	Treatment includes intake of foods that are rich in zinc such as oyster, nuts, peas, meat products and eggs. It may also be treated through administration of zinc supplements.
33906	If the tumors are large enough the doctor will perform a surgery the get rid of the tumors if tumors are small the doctor will prescribe acid-reducing medication where in the patient will have to take in medication for a long period of time. In severe cases the stomach might be entirely removed.
33910	Massage and application of heat can help prior to feeding as this will aid the opening of the ducts and passageways. A cold compress may be applied to ease the pain when not needing to lose the milk, though it is most suitable to reduce the levels of milk contained. For this reason it is also advised that the baby should often feed from the inflamed organ of the chest or the breast. However, the content of the milk may be somewhat transformed, sometimes being more salty, and the taste may make the baby reject the breast at the first case.
