14731	The deficiency in 17 alpha-hydroxylase is a result of flaws in cytochrome P450c17. cytochrome P450c17 is the only enzyme that has 17 alpha-hydroxylase and also 17, 20-ylase activities.
14742	It is believed that the mutation of the gene Cullin 7 could lead to the disorder. Cullin 7 belongs to a protein family which is responsible for the regulation of cell cycles. With 3M syndrome, the mutation would create a stop codon prematurely. With this, prenatal and postnatal retardation on growth would soon result.
14745	47 XYY syndrome is not an inherited condition. This is just the result of an accidental event during sperm cell formation. The 'accident' happens either during metaphase I or metaphase II.
14747	It is still not fully understood what causes the xxyy syndrome. Studies of the condition are very limited and currently, there is but little information as to the origin of this syndrome. It is still not known whether the it is the environment or merely the chromosomal activities which are factors to the development of this syndrome. It is good to note, though, that parents who have one child with xxyy syndrome are bound to have more kids with the same condition.
14748	There are no known environmental factors or even age factors that cause the Penta X syndrome. This condition is actually a result of some errors during reproductive cell division in one of the two parents. All other information pertaining to it is limited as there are only a few studies about this chromosomal abnormality.
14749	The genetic foundation is still unknown but it is an autosomal recessive condition which is inherited. The most common trait of the syndrome is a widespread lymphatic defect. It is believed that people who marry among their own tend to have a bigger chance of producing children that have the syndrome.
14751	This syndrome is believed to be a genetic disorder that is x-linked recessive. Some studies contradict that it could be a disorder that is x-linked dominant which justifies the many cases of males that are affected by the illness. There are only a few cases of females with this syndrome. This disorder is acquired when a mutation happens to the FGDY1 gene or the faciogenital dysplasia which can be located on the chromosome X.
14753	The disease is believed to be an autosomal dominant disorder, and is as well caused by the underdevelopment of the bone marrow.
14754	The root cause of developing aviophobia vary from one individual to another and may also be a result of other fears or phobias like fear of hijacking or terrorism, fear of turbulence, fear of crashing that may cause death or injury, fear of heights, and fear of closed spaces such as an aircraft cabin. A previous traumatizing experience when flying can also cause aviophobia.
14759	Abdominal migraine is caused by a variety of reasons. It can be genetic, or due to other underlying gastrointestinal diseases, as well as stress. It can also be a side effect of taking NSAIDs. Children with abdominal migraine are also subject to suffering migraines as they reach adulthood.
14760	It is said to be caused by the inflammation, stretching and distention of an organ or by loss of the blood supply in a certain organ as in the case of ischmic colitis.
14762	Dysphagia lusoria is a type of dysphagia which is caused by an abnormal subclavian artery on the right. Ortner's syndrome is known as recurring laryngeal nerve palsy. The defective right subclavian artery often occurs from an open portion of the proximal descending aorta which is also termed as Kummerel or Diverticulum. In both cases of subclavian arteries, the vessel passes behind the esophagus. An impression is made on the back portion of the esophagus by the aberrant right subclavian artery while the left subclavian artery is often the one that causes anterior dislocation and acute compression on the esophagus. The left subclavian artery often causes compression of the airways. The right aberrant artery could be linked with adult dysphagia. The left aberrant artery is the one that usually causes symptoms on the obstruction of the esophagus and airway among infants and young children.
14763	Abetalipoproteinemia is an autosomal recessive disorder.
14764	The cause of AMS is still not known but a few of the medical cases of this syndrome suggest that it can be inherited as an autosomal trait of the recessive gene.
14765	Abnormal uterine bleeding can be caused by hormonal changes in a woman's body, as well as miscarriages during pregnancy, stress and as well as menopause.
14766	Abscesses occur when an area of tissue becomes infected and the body's immune system tries to fight it. White blood cells drift to the blood vessel walls near the site of infection, accumulate and encourage pus formation as fluid, living and dead white blood cells, dead tissue, and bacteria deposits accumulate.
14767	Bartholin's abscess develops when there is an obstruction blocking the small opening of Bartholin's glands. The fluid builds up in the gland and may become infected. While Bartholin's abscess is not strictly a sexually transmitted disease, it is often caused by a number of bacteria such as gonorrhea which are sexually transmitted.
14768	In most cases, there are no underlying cause can be detected for absence seizures. Most children only seem to have some genetic predisposition to them. Most often, hyperventilation and flashing lights can help trigger an absence seizure.
14769	No experiment or exact studies have proven the cause of absent T lymphocytes. To date, it is still a mystery how this defect happens. It is believed, however, that the errors or defects occur during the development of the fetus.
14777	Acanthosis Nigricans occurs when there is a spillover of insulin into the patient's skin. This is caused by overproduction because of obesity or it could be because of resistance to insulin). When there's a spillover, it is often observed that abnormal growths start to appear. The most probable cause is resistance to insulin which is ordinarily from type 2 diabetis mellitus. Other causes include gastric cancer that is malignant; idiopathic and polycystic ovary syndrome; or obesity. When it comes to malignant illnesses, Acanthosis nigricans is a syndrome that is paraneoplastic and is often referred to as Acanthosis nigricans maligna. It is very rare that mucous membranes become involved.
14782	The cause of this disorder remains unknown.
14783	This disorder is caused by a deletion of the C7orf2 gene (human orthologue of the Lmbr1 gene).
14784	The condition is often experienced during excessive flattening of the foot arch; putting much pressure on the Achilles tendon when walking; trauma as well as the development of infection in an area adjacent to the tendon are also considered as secondary factors.
14785	The primary cause of this medical condition is largely brought about by repeated stress on the tendon that may be further aggravated by weak calf muscles, flatfeet, poor stretching habits as well as overuse. As a person ages, the risks of Achilles tendon rupture increases, especially without any exercise which can gradually weaken and thin the tendon making it all the more susceptible to injuries.
14788	Achondroplasia is caused by a mutation (autosomal dominant) in the FGFR3 or fibroblast growth factor receptor gene. This mutation causes defects on the formation of cartilages. FGFR3 generally has a harmful effect on the growth of bones. In this condition, the mutated type of the receptor is active which would lead to acutely short bones.
14789	It is an inherited autosomal dominant trait.
14790	Cerebral achromatopsia is a type of color blindness that can be acquired. It is caused by an injury to the brain (at the cerebral cortex). This is not an abnormality of the retinal cells. Congenital achromatopsia is caused by the inborn types of achromatopsia. They are all due to the retinal phottransduction pathway defect. Solely, this type of ACHM appears to be a result of cone cell malfunction. This is commonly caused by genetic mutations of the cyclic nucleotide-gated ion channels cone cell CHGA3 and CNGB3 also GNAT2.
14798	Sudden pivoting, change in direction as well as overextending of the knee are the main causes of ACL injury. These are found to be most common in volleyball and basketball sports, putting the knee at serious risk.
14799	The exact cause of acne is still not known even today. What's certain is that it is hereditary. Some other factors include: family history (the genes can play a great factor in the appearance of the disease); hormonal activities (puberty or menstrual periods); stress (when a person experiences this, the body secretes additional hormones); agitated sebaceous glands; the buildup of dead skin cells; pores that are clogged with bacteria; scratching or skin irritation will enhance inflammation; anabolic steroid usage; using medications which contain halogens (chlorides, iodides, bromides), barbiturates, lithium, or androgens; the patient's exposure to some chemical compounds or drugs which could include narcotics.
14800	Acne Cystic is said to be caused by the excess buildup of sebum in the pores.
14802	It has been observed recently that patients who suffer from rosacea have their peptide cathelicidin levels elevated. The stratum coeneum tryptic enzyme levels are also at their peak. In the past, antibiotics have been administered to treat rosacea but these often worked only because they inhibit a few SCTE's. Rosacea can be hereditary and white people can have a higher chance of developing the illness because of their genetic predisposition. Women may be more vulnerable to this disease but when men acquire the disease, their cases tend to be more acute. Triggering factors that cause blushes and flushes are: strenuous exercise, direct exposure to sunlight, acute sunburn, anxiety, stress, cold wind, and moving in to a different place with a different temperature. Some medications could become irritants that make rosacea progress. If the skin's redness persists after the use of a product, it is imperative that the usage be stopped. Some acne treatments are even known to 'cause' rosacea because the method of application involves chemical peels or microdermabrasion; or high the product could have a high content of tretinoin, benzoyl peroxide or isotretinoin.
14803	The cause of Acoustic Neuroma is not yet known though it is linked with factors such as age and family history of the same condition.
14808	The specific cause of skin tags or acrochordons is unknown but there is a tendency that their development is inherited or it runs in families.
14811	Most of the patients that are afflicted with acrodysostosis do not have a family history of the illness. Sometimes, though, the disease can be inherited by the child from its parent as an autosomal dominant trait which means that the parents have the condition and they have passed it on to their offspring (even when the condition is apparent with just one of the two parents, this illness could still be inherited). Although it is now clear that the illness is caused by an inherited condition, to this day, the specific gene that causes the disease is still unrecognized.
14813	The disease is a result of other autoimmune disorders that cause damages to the central nervous system.
14814	This disorder is often sporadic although it, too, can be inherited. Some studies have shown that the gene which causes the illness might be located around 9q32 and it is possible that the ZFP-37 gene could also be involved.
14818	Acrophobia , just like all other irrational fears, is often believed to be caused by experiencing trauma. In this case, the trauma involves heights. Most recent studies dispute that fear of earsplitting noises and fear of falling are not the inborn causes of acrophobia. The degrees of fear vary and phobia is a term that should be associated with those who manifest extreme terror. It is believed that most mammals on account of their degree of self-preservation have fear of heights. An experiment has been done where infants and other animals do not venture into the 'visual cliffs' that were set up (these are glass floors with a few meters of 'fall space' right below it). Being cautious is still healthy; the problem only begins when the cautiousness becomes fear. Being cautious can be helpful in surviving but fear makes an individual inhibit other activities. A probable contributing factor could be dysfunction in sustaining balance. With this case, the anxiety is secondary and well founded. The balance system of all human beings integrates vestibular, proprioceptive, and nearby visual signals to reckon one's motion or position. When the height increases, visual cues tend to recede and the person's balance becomes poor (normal people also feel this way). An acrophobic would continue to rely on the visual cues whether it be incorrect approach or insufficient vestibular function. Moving while in very high places recquires more than the usual visual processing and the acrophobic could become so confused because of visual cortex overload.
14820	The main cause of actinic cheilitis or farmer's lip is excessive and chronic exposure to ultraviolet radiation in sunlight. There may be a thickening whitish discoloration of the lip at the border of the skin and lip. The usually sharp demarcation between the normal skin (vermilion border) and the red of the lip may also be lost.
14826	This condition have been known to develop due to several causes, the most significant triggers are streptococcus, group A streptococcus, strep throat, streptococcal infections and scarlet fever.
14827	The main cause of the disease is due to exposure to the element beryllium. People usually affected by this disease are those working in factories that use beryllium for their products, particularly of materials used for dental purposes.
14828	It is said to be caused by viruses such as the respiratory syncytial virus, rhinovirus, influenza and may be a result of smoking and fumes.
14830	According to medical records, the causes of this rare form of blood cancer are largely unknown. Nonetheless, acute erythroblastic leukemia actually represents approximately 10-20% of leukemias, and secondary to radiation, overexposure to benzene and alkylator theraphy.
14831	In most recorded medical cases, the underlying cause of this disease is undetermined. However, acute febrile neutrophilic dermatosis may possibly follow upper respiratory infection among young adults. The condition may also be associated with several types of cancer such as leukemia, and is also known to occur more on women between ages 30-50.
14832	Gout is known to develop when the urate crystals are accumulated around the joint, which will cause intense pain and inflammation. Urate crystals usually form when a person has abnormally high levels of uric acid in the blood. The human body produces uric acid to effectively break down purine, a substance found in the body and in certain food groups.
14833	It is caused by an autoimmune mechanism that is triggered upon the onset of a certain infection. T
14834	Acute intermittent porphyria is acquired through the genes. Studies have shown that this medical condition is remarkably more prevalent in Northern Europe and are known to be more common among women.
14835	Common causes of acute kidney failure include an extremely low blood pressure, poor heart function and low blood volume. It can also be associated with other disorders that may related to the reduction in the supply of blood in the kidneys Ureter and bladder obstruction may also be some of the underlying causes
14836	There are a number of causes of liver failure include drug abuse, hepatitis A and B virus, toxins and other autoimmune and vascular diseases. Cancer and metabolic disease can also be the underlying cause of a liver failure.
14837	The underlying cause of ALL is still not known. In general, the development of cancer is brought about by the damage to the patient's DNA which will lead to uncontrolled cellular growth that rapidly spreads through the different organs in the body. Such damage can be largely contributed by environmental factors such as radiation, drugs and chemicals. There are also some families that display a hereditary predisposition to ALL.
14838	There are a number of risk factor that were identified that largely contribute to the development of AML. Among these include pre-leukemic blood disorders, exposure to chemotherapy, ionizinf radiation, occupation chemical exposure, and some congenital conditions such as Down syndrome.
14839	In general, people have varied susceptibility to attitude sickness. This usually occurs during rapid ascent and symptoms are known to manifest about 6-10 hours after ascent and can possibly last for a day or two.
14840	While there are a number of risk factors that have been indetified ass underlying cause of AML, the specific cause still remains unclear. As an acute form of leukemia, AML rapidly progresses can provde to be fatal, causing death within weeks or months if the medical condition is left untreated.
14841	The causative organisms identified in ANUG include anaerobes such as fusibacterium and bacteroids and spirochetes. ANUG is caused by the proliferation of oral bacteria which may be caused by a number of factors including poor hygiene, frequent smoking, poor diet, infection and lifestyle.
14842	Among the indentified common causes of acute pancreatitis include alcohol abuse, trauma, streroids, scorpion stings, mumps, drug abuse, hyperlipidemia and gallstones.
14843	It is said to be caused by gallstones, alcohol consumption, trauma, autoimmune diseases, trauma, steroids, scorpion stings and idiopathic.
14844	The underlying causes of APMPPE is still not established. However, about one third of the patients with APMPPE reported history of upper respiratory infection or some other systemic illness.
14845	APL is caused by chromosomal translocations, which is a DNA abnormality that causes leukemia to develop. Normally, the human DNA consists of 23 pairs of chromosomes. In APL, one chromosome breaks off and gets attached to another chromosome, hence the term translocation.
14846	There are a number of underlying causes that can be associated with renal failure. The first category incolves causes triggered in the blood supply such as hypovolemia, hepatorenal syndrome, and vascular problems. The next category involves damage to the kidney, which include infection such as sepsis, toxins, hemolysis, and multiple myeloma. Post- due trenal causes can also be due to kidney stones and benign prostatic hypertrophy.
14847	Sepsis and the systemic inflammatory response syndrome (SIRS) are the most frequent predisposing factors associated with development of ARDS. These conditions may arise from the indirect toxic effects of neutrophil-derived inflammatory mediators in the lungs.
14848	Sinusitis usually develops when the mucous membranes of the upper respiratory tract including the pharynx, nose, throat, and sinuses becomes inflamed. This swelling will obstruct the openings of the sinus and prevent the mucus from draining naturally; creating a moist environment that makes it susceptible to infection. The primary cause of sinusitis is typically viral in nature, such as that of the common cold virus. Other triggers include allergies, a deviated nasal septum, nasal polyps and other medical complications.
14849	This illness is an immunological disorder. Among the diseases it is closely linked with is the erythema multiforme and the Stevens-Johnson syndrome.
14852	The gene that causes this condition has been mapped to locus 1p31; several allelic variations have been reported. The most frequent mutation is 985A>G, which refers to a substitution of a guanine nucleotide for an adenine nucleotide at the 985th residue. A second mutation, 583G>A, is reportedly common in specific populations. One study reported that individuals homozygous for 985A>G or 583G>A mutations had the greatest levels of octanoylcarnitine, even when asymptomatic, and had the most severe clinical manifestations. Phenotype-genotype relationships have been sought, with little or no success. As an example, although the common 985A>G mutation is commonly responsible for infantile onset, the same mutation has been reported in a patient with adult onset. Acute hepatic failure in a previously healthy gravid female who is homozygous for the 985A>G mutation has been reported, hence confirming the potential for later onset, as well as the severity of complications with this specific mutation.
14855	It is associated with conjunctivitis,common cold, febrile, uper respiratory illnesses, gastrointestinal diseases, pneumonia and bronchitis.
14857	Addison Anemia is a hereditary disease.
14858	Causes of adrenal insufficiency can be grouped by the way in which they cause the adrenals to give out insufficient cortisol. These are adrenal dysgenesis (the gland has not formed adequately during development), adrenal destruction (disease processes leading to the gland being damaged), or impaired steroidogenesis (the gland is present but is biochemically unable to produce cortisol).
14860	The primary causes of mesenteric adenitis include viral infection, bowel infections, viral bowel infection and mononucleosis.
14861	Cigarette smoking is the most important cause of lung cancers. Research as far back as the 1950s clearly established this association. Cigarette smoke contains more than 4,000 chemicals, many of which have been identified to cause cancer. A person who smokes more than one pack per day has a risk of developing lung cancer 20-25 times greater than someone who has never smoked. Once a person quits smoking, his or her risk for lung cancer slowly decreases. About 15 years after quitting, the risk for lung cancer goes down to the level of someone who never smoked. Cigar and pipe smoking heighten the risk of lung cancer but not as much as smoking cigarettes.
14863	The cause of adenomas is usually unknown. Liver adenomas that occur in women are sometimes linked to prolonged use of oral contraceptives. There are also some forms of adenomas such as that of the colon that can be inherited.
14864	Along with other types of adenomas, the cause of adrenal adenomas is largely unknown. However, the current accepted theory states that adenomas arise from mutations in the person's genes. Patients with some genetic defects of body systems can also increase the possibility of adenoma and the likelihood increases as the person ages.
14865	The primary cause of adenomyosis is still not clearly established. Some medical experts believe that adenomyosis is a result of a direct invasion of the endometrial cells into the woman's uterine walls. There are also some theories linking adenomyosis and childbirth, pinpointing the uterus inflammation during postpartum may be a trigger.
14866	ADA is classified as an autosomal recessive disorder, which requires both parents as carrier that passes on the defective gene to their offspring causing the child to inherit this deficiency.
14867	The AMD deficiency may be asymptomatic or it can also be caused by exercise induced cramping or myalgias. For symptomatic patients, they don't accumulate ammonia during exercise as most people normally do.
14870	It is still unclear whether ASLD and the pathological mechanisms are brought about by purine deficiency, perturbation of the pathway or toxicity of intermediates.
14871	It is cause by the body's normal response of a injury like incision, infection, or trauma of a tissues. While the body repair itself, it cannot identify the difference between one organ to another, that causes connection surface.
14872	There is actually no definite identified cause that can explain the occurrence of the frozen shoulders.
14873	The most common cause of Adie syndrome is viral infection. Tumors, vascular lesions, trauma, giant cell arteritis and diabetes can also inflict serious damage on the ciliary ganglion.
14874	There is currently no known record on the cause of this disease, and the lack of treatments have seriously affected the quality of life of the affected individuals. This type of this can be inherited and is categorized as a autoimmune disease and not a metabolic disturbance.
14875	The cause of adrenal cancer is still unknown and in most cases do not display identifiable risk factors. Heredity is said to play an important role in the development of adrenal cancer. Genetic mutations increase the risks of several types of cancer and this includes adrenal cancer.
14876	The particular defects that cause the congenital adrenal hyperplasia include the autosomal recessive disorders that may be due to deficient activity of a protein that is involved in cortisol and aldosterone. In majority of the cases, CAH is mainly due to a deletion or mutation of the particular gene that codes for the protein.
14885	There is still no known single underlying cause responsible for the development schizophrenia. It is believed to be brought about by a chemical imbalance of the brain that may be an inherited factor. However, it is believed that there are three factors associated to the development of schizonphrenia which includes environmental, genetic and other multifactorial traits.
14887	It is said to be caused by Atherosclerosis.
14888	This defect is caused by a disruption of fetal development during the first trimester of pregnancy. This may be due to chromosomal disorders, as well as injuries or trauma incurred by a pregnant woman.
14893	Agnosia is cause from strokes, dementia, or other neurological problem. Head injury, brain infection and genetic are also the predisposing factors that leads agnosia.
14895	The list below shows the probable medical causes of Agyria: Norman-Roberts syndrome Walker-Warburg syndrome Cytomegalovirus, congenital Lennox-Gastaut syndrome Muscle-eye-brain disease Fukuyama congenital muscular dystrophy Congenital muscular dystrophy, autosomal recessive Miller-Dieker syndrome
14898	The unconscious mind creates Aichmophobia as a protective mechanism. The past experiences may also play great role in such a way that there might be an event where you have to deal with the use of needles or any pointed objects that caused you pain or trauma. While the original cause may be due to a real-life experience, the condition may also arise due to countless, benign events such as movies. As long as the negative relation is powerful enough the unconscious mind thinks that the entire thing or event is dangerous. One of the primary ways where in individuals learns are attaching emotions to situations. Manifestation In different ways the real phobia shows itself. Several patients suffer it almost all the time, others merely in reaction to direct stimuli. Each person has their own distinctive method for when and how to feel bad. Complications People suffering from Aichmophobia tend to avoid a lot of activities which leads them to miss out on some of the important events in their life. It also leads them to be picky when looking for work or involving themselves in several activities which will impair their social life at some point.
14902	Airplane ear is known to occur when the eardrum retracts inward or bulges outwards as a result to the rapid difference in air pressure.
14903	Akathisia commonly cause by side effect of antisychotic drugs. Aside from that, Non-sedating antipsychotic drugs like Haloperidol(haldol) can also cause the disorder. Other drugs that can lead to Akathisia includes the antidepressant drugs like tricyclics and trazodone (desryl), anti emetic drugs, especially the dopamine blocker. And some of the recreational drugs such as GHB mathampethamine and MDMA, when given in higher dose.
14904	This condition is due to a severe damage of the frontal lobe affecting the patient's inhibitory control; the person affected by this illness has increased passivity and decreased speech and motion. The illness is caused by an olfactory groove meningioma, which can occur in a stroke. The ablation of the cingulated gyrus can also contribute to the onset of the disease, since the drug is used to treat psychosis.
14905	Alagille syndrome is an autosomal dominant genetic disorder.
14908	The underlying cause albinism is genetic mutation that resulted to the absence of melanin. In most common types of albinism, the albino inherits mutated gene from both parents in order to result to albinism. This means both mother and father are carriers of the mutated gene since one copy would not normally result to albinism.
14910	Parathyroid hormone that is produced in the parathyroid glands that effectively help in regulating phosphate and calcium levels in the blood. This is a hereditary disorder passed on by genes.
14912	Alcaptonuria is caused by the mutation in the HGD gene. This particular gene produces an enzyme that helps break down amino acids into smaller molecule. Mutations prevent the production of this enzyme causing the buildup of homogentisic acid, which is also present in the patient's urine and causes it to turn black upon exposure to air.
14913	Alcohol fetopathy is primarily caused by alcoholism in mother as well as serious prenatal alcohol exposure that leads to congenital defects to the infant.
14914	Factors that might play a significant role in the development of alcohol hepatitis include genetic factors, other diseases such as diabetes, obesity and malnutrition, especially for people who tend to drink heavily without proper nutrition.
14915	The main cause for this disorder is the prolonged exposure and consumption of alcoholic beverages. This usually develops on aging people who have been long-time alcohol drinkers.
14916	Alcohol poisoning may result from accidental - and, in some cases, intentional - ingestion, particularly among children: Ethanol, Isopropyl alcohol, Methanol
14917	Psychological factors may include: A need for anxiety relief, conflict in relationships, depression, and low self-esteem. Social factors include: Ease of getting alcohol, social acceptance of alcohol use, stressful lifestyle, and peer pressure.
14918	Though the adrenal glands each only have about half the size of the human thumb, it basically dictates a number of functions of the body. This include regulating the metabolism, blood pressure, the immune system, among a number of other essential functions. The most common cause of this medical condition is a benign growth in the adrenal gland or what is known as aldosteronoma, or Conn's syndrome. Other underlying causes may include highly rare genetic mutations, overactivity of the glands, and cancerous growths in the cortex of the adrenal glands.
14919	The causes of Alexander disease is said as the mutation in the gene encoding glial fibrillary acidic protein.
14920	This highly interesting medical condition usually occurs in certain cases after a patient has undergone brain surgery, infections and strokes.
14921	A normal body regulates the balance of the acid and base status. Like the lungs and the kidneys that regulates carbon dioxide (an acid) and bicarbonate (a base). Malfunction of the organs can cause imbalance, a decrease of acid and or increase of base is a condition called alkalosis. Severe vomiting that cause loss of chloride and kidney failure that causes loss of potassium may lead to alkalosis.
14922	Alkaptonuia has been known as a classic recessive condition that is derived from an autosomal or what is known as the nonsex chromosome.
14923	This genetic disorder is brought about the x-linked recessive pattern, a mutated gene that is located on the patient's x chromosomes. The male species are more prone to contract this disease than females.
14924	Allergic angiitis is typically caused by an overzealous immune system of the body, which is an autoimmune reaction to allergens and infection.
14925	It is said to be caused by aeroallergens which includes spores, dust mites and in some cases the monosodium glutamate.
14926	The fungus that triggers this allergic reaction is called aspergillus fumigatus, which usually thrives in decaying vegetation, soil, dusts, food and water. Other identified fungi allergen includes candida, penicillium, helminthosporium, and curvularia, all largely found in the environment.
14927	It is said to be caused by allergens that are inhaled and attaches to the mucus membranes.
14928	Many perennial and seasonal allergens cause allergic rhinitis. The pollens causing hay fever differ from person to person and from region to region. Hard to see pollens usually trigger the condition.
14929	Current medical evidences suggest that alopecia is primarily caused by the abnormality in the immune system, often leading to autoimmunity. The body's immune system then attacks its own hair follicles causing the disruption of the natural formation of the hair. Heredity and gene can also a play a role as one of the leading cause of alopecia, along with medication, chemotherapy-induced and stress-related effect.
14930	This type of hair loss is not contagious. However, hereditary may be a big factor of this condition as history of such disease in the family increases the probability of also acquiring such disorder, especially with family history of autoimmune diseases. Stress is also cited as a probable factor.
14931	Over 20% of people with alopecia totalis have a family member also affected with it. People with history of asthma, eczema and thyroid disease are more prone to alopecia totalis. Stress is thought to be the main contributor to hair loss due to alopecia. However, even people that live a stress-free and happy lives experience the symptoms. A person's social status, sex and ethnic origin have no relationship with the likelihood of acquiring alopecia totalis. Studies show that alopecia totalis is caused by the body's immune system that wrongly attacks the growing cells in the head's hair-producing follicles, wherein hair normally grows. As such, the follicles stop producing new hair on the head and even cause existing hair to fall out. However, these follicles will remain active and therefore, the potential for hair re-growth is always there.
14932	Alopecia universalis may occur at any age in both men and women. It is believed to be an autoimmune disorder, wherein the white blood cells attack the fast-growing cells in the hair follicles responsible for making hair. These affected cells become smaller and dramatically slow down hair production. Fortunately, the follicles will still receive new cells, so the potential for re-growth is there.
14933	When hair falls out but new hair does not grow in its place is called baldness. It is not well understood as to the cause of the failure to grow new hair in female pattern baldness, but it is associated with aging, levels of endocrine hormones (particularly androgens, the male sex hormones) and genetic predisposition. As an example, many women find that the hair on the head is thinned, white facial hair is coarser after hormonal changes of menopause. It is because changes in the levels of androgens can affect hair production. Follicles may remain alive, suggesting the possibility of new hair growth. Some of the possible reasons why hair loss can occur in women are iron deficiency, temporary shedding of hair (telogen effluvium), vitamin deficiency, patchy areas of total hair loss, medications, breaking of hair and certain skin diseases.
14934	Male pattern baldness or androgenic alopecia is a genetically determined condition. Not found in males castrated prior to puberty, androgen is necessary for the progression of the disorder, and is postulated to be a dominantly inherited disorder with variable penetrance and expression.
14939	Alport syndrome is caused by mutations in collagen biosynthesis genes. Mutations in COL4A5, COL4A4 and COL4A3 prevent the normal production of the "type IV collage network", which is responsible for the healthy function of basement membranes in the eye, inner ear and kidneys. Basement membranes are thin structures that support and separate cells in various tissues. When mutations occur, it prevents the formation of type IV fibers and stops the basement membranes of kidneys to create normal urine and filter water from the blood resulting in hematuria. The abnormal amounts of type IV collagen in the kidney's basement membranes cause kidney scarring, which may eventually lead to kidney failure.
14942	Altitude Illness happens from the blend of reduced air pressure and a lower concentration of oxygen at high altitude. Symptoms can be scope starting slight to life-threatening, and it also concerns the nervous system, lungs, muscles and heart.
14943	Altophobia can be brought about by past traumatic experiences involving heights. Anxiety disorders can also aggravate this fear.
14944	Rare cause of harsh and irreversible pulmonary hypertension usually presents with acute onset respiratory failure during the first 48 hours of life.
14945	Alveolar Hydatid Disease is caused by the larval stage of Echinococcus multilocularis which is a tapeworm.
14946	The cause of the alveolar osteitis is a blood clot that forms at the site of the tooth extraction. Other causes include possible bacterial contamination of the socket, roots and bone fragments and traumatic tooth extraction surgery.
14947	In a chromosomal analysis of ASPS, the joining and breaking of 2 chromosomes in tumor cells are shown. One "chromosome x" breaks and joins chromosome 17. When this happens, a fusion between 2 genes named TFE3 and ASPL occurs, resulting in the formation of a fusion protein not found in normal, healthy cells.
14949	It is said to be cause by cancer cells that develops in the bronchial tubes of the lungs.
14953	This medical condition is caused by a genetic anomaly due to the abnormality in the chromosomes that controls the development o the baby's sex organ. Other possible causes include congenital adrenal hyperplasia, mother's ingestion of substances that stimulate male hormone activity, tumors, and impaired testicle development.
14955	The first hairs made by an embryo's hair follicles inside the womb are called "lanugo hairs", which grow unpigmented, fine and long. However, when the embryo reaches 8 months gestation, lanugo hairs are normally shed off and replaced by fine vellus hair to prepare for birth. While a few lanugo hairs may survive after birth, these are usually shed shortly after. When a child is born with plenty or all of the lanugo hairs, this child looks like he or she is covered in light fur. This appearance and excessively long hair throughout the body will persist throughout life.
14960	Post-traumatic amnesia is generally due to a head injury. Mild trauma, such as a car accident that results in no more than mild whiplash, might be a reason for the occupant of a car to have no remembrance of the moments just before the accident due to a brief interruption in the short/long-term memory transfer mechanism.
14961	Amnesic Shellfish Poisoning is said to be caused by a toxin produced by a microscopic, salt-water red plant or diatom named as the Nitzchia pungens.
14962	Amnestic Disorder is said to be caused by a structural or chemical damage to the brain parts which may be due to head trauma, tumors, stroke or due to a disease which affects the blood vessels of in the brain. It may also be caused by drug use, exposure to toxic chemicals, alcoholism and exposure to pesticides.
14963	Entamoeba histolytica can be transmitted through a contaminated food or water containing the parasite. It can also be spread from one person to another and men who have sex with another men.
14964	Amputation is caused by Diseases, such as blood vessel disease (called peripheral vascular disease or PVD), diabetes, or osteomyelitis (an infection in the bones). Injury of the arms is one cause of this disease. 75 percent of upper extremity amputations are complicated to trauma.
14965	The cause of primary amyloidosis is unknown, but it begins in your bone marrow. In accumulation to producing red and white blood cells and platelets, your bone marrow creates antibodies, proteins that protect you against infection and disease.
14966	ALS is believed to be progressive autosomal dominant genetic defect.
14968	ALS is caused by a genetic defect. Another possible cause of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis is spare glutamate, one of the several chemicals (neurotransmitters) that neurons use to conduct signals to one another.
14969	Anal Cancer is caused by sexual activity, lowered immunity level; smoking cigarette smoking may increase a person's risk of developing anal cancer.
14971	The most common cause of anal fissures is large or hard stool passing through the anal canal during bowel movements. Other causes include: Constipation and straining during bowel movements, inflammation of the anorectal area, such as is caused by inflammatory bowel disease, anal sex.
14972	Some of the causes of anal itching can be due to dry skin, excessive washing, too much moisture, chemical and food irritants, reaction to medication as well as overuse of laxatives. It can also be a cause of skin disorders, anal tumors, yeast infections and anal abrasions or fissures.
14973	After an early exposure to a substance like bee sting toxin, the person's immune system becomes induced to that allergen; Shocking dose. Some drugs like polymyxin, morphine, x-ray dye, and others may cause an "anaphylactoid" reaction on the first contact.
14974	Anaphylactoid purpura is is said to be caused by an infection either from a virus or a bacteria and drugs.
14975	Anaphylaxis is a serious allergic reaction that affects the entire body. This disease can occur in response to any kind of allergen, such as horse serum, drug allergies, insect stings or bites and food allergies. Pollens and other inhaled allergens cause Anaphylaxis, but this occurs rarely. Some people have anaphylactic reaction without identifiable cause.
14977	Causes are too much salt or sodium, burns, sunburn, poor nutrition, too little albumin in the blood, pregnancy, chronic kidney disease, heart failure, liver failure from cirrhosis, thyroid diseases, and drugs including androgenic and anabolic steroids, corticosteroids such as prednisone, estrogen, and certain blood pressure medicines.
14981	In temperate climates, impaired binding of vitamin B12 are caused by an intrinsic factor called autoimmune atrophic gastritis, wherein autoantibodies are autoantibodies are directed against the parietal cells, resulting the loss of vitamin B12. This condition also directs autoantibodies against intrinsic factor itself, making it unable to bind vitamin B12.
14982	The most common cause of Sideroblastic anemia is failure to form "heme" completely. The biosynthesis of this "heme" takes place in the mitochondrion, leading to the abnormal deposits of iron in the mitochondria that forms a ring around the developing red blood cells. Sometimes, Sideroblastic anemia represents a type of generalized bone marrow disorder, which ultimately lead to acute leukemia. Causes of Sideroblastic anemia include toxins, such as zinc or lead poisoning, copper and pyridoxine deficiency, ALA synthase deficiency and drug-induced clycloserine, isoniazid, ethanol and chloramphenicol.
14986	Angelman Syndrome's often caused by problems with a gene located on chromosome 15 called UBE3A genes. You obtain your genes, which occur in pairs, from your mother and father.
14987	Angina is primarily caused by the significant reduction of blood flow to the heart muscle; this is a supply problem that causes the heart to have a limited oxygen rich blood supply. There are a number of possible causes that triggers this condition such as physical exertion, emotional stress, cold temperature, smoking, fatty deposits on the blood vessels, as well as severe anemia.
14987	The usually cause of angina pectoris is the coronary heart disease. It is caused by too little blood flow to the heart. The two chief causes of angina are coronary artery spasm, and atherosclerotic plaque buildup which causes dangerous obstruction of the coronary artery.
14988	Angina pectoris is caused by the narrowing of the blood vessels such that oxygen could not be sufficiently delivered to the heart muscles. This can also be due to emotional stress and arteriosclerosis.
14989	There is still no real and concrete cause that can explain this rare medical condition, although some medical experts believe it has something to do with the human herpes virus that is also associated with Kaposi sarcoma.
14990	Studies show that lipoma development is not hereditary. However, it could show clinical features that may indicate that the condition is hereditary.
14993	This is a disease which occurs as a complication of Diabetes mellitus and caused by high levels of blood sugar in our system thus resulting to the damage or eventual death of our lymph vessels or blood vessels.
14994	The cause of angiosarcoma is usually unknown. However, angiosarcoma could occur in a part of the body that has previously been exposed to radiation. This type of angiosarcoma can become aggressive, while responding to treatment poorly. Another type of angiosarcoma may develop in patients with chronic lymphedema in the leg or arm. Doctors call this rare disease as "Stewart-Treves syndrome".
14996	Among the variety of reasons why angular cheilitis occurs are from bacterial (Staphylococcal) or viral infections and as well as fungal (Candidiasis) or yeast infection. Those who are taking the isotretinoin medication for acne are more vulnerable to angular cheilitis caused by bacterial and fungal infections. Dentures that are worn and do not fit properly can also be a cause for angular cheilitis because of the friction and folds being created. Deficiencies in vitamin B-2 (riboflavin), B-3 (niacin), vitamin B-6 (pyridoxine), vitamin B-12 (cyanocobalamin) and a defieciency in iron are also among the causes of angular cheilitis.
14997	There are a number of possible causes of this medical condition such as nerve damage, skin damage, effects of certain medications, genetic factors, and dehydration.
15000	The particular cause of Anisometropia is not yet known though it is said to be inherited or because of a trauma..
15001	The ankle joint is made up of 3 bones, the lower leg bone, the shinbone bone and the ankle bone. One of the bones can easily break during a fall or a serious blow to the ankle. Stress fractures is one of the most common causes of ankle fracture caused by repetitive use or force on the ankle such as in running long distances. Osteoporosis may also be an underlying cause in increasing the risk of ankle fracture.
15002	An ankle sprain occurs when the ankle its move out of its usual position, causing the ligaments to stretch abnormally or even tear it. A trauma caused by an fall or landing awkwardly when jumping or pivoting as well as running on an uneven surface increases the risks of spraining the ankle.
15006	Annular pancreas is usually associated with abnormal development of embryos. However, Annular pancreas can also occur in adults.
15014	There are a number of causes that can explain this condition such as an underlying disease, such as an illness that can affect the sexuality, affect of a certain medication, alcohol and drugs, as well as the aging process. It can also be due to a psychological cause such as stress and anxiety, mental health problems, embarrassment and guilt.
15015	Infection or a stuffy nose usually causes temporary Anosmia. However, permanent Anosmia is caused by brain injury that affected the olfactory nerve, which is responsible for processing smell. Permanent Anosmia can also be caused by excessive use of nasal spray and nasal polyps, which are found in people with histories of sinusitis and allergies. Other causes of Anosmia include smoking, head trauma, toxins, dementia with Lewy bodies, old age, laryngectomy, old age, esthesioneuroblastoma and upper respiratory tract infection, such as common cold and sinusitis.
15016	Anovulation is said to be caused by stress and anxiety, excessive exercise and weight loss, administration of medications such as steroidal oral contraceptive and long acting injectable steroid contraceptives. It may also be caused by cognetial adrenal hyperplasia and premature ovarian failure.
15017	Anoxia may be caused by severe asthma, strangulation, heart attack,anesthetic accidents, poisoning, carbon monoxide inhalation and even medical conditions such as whooping cough, acute pancreatitis and SARS.
15018	Common causes of anterior cruciate ligament injury include application of excessive twisting force to the knee while the foot is steadily planted on the ground or during landing, direct blow to the knee coming from the outside, which can happen while playing football or rugby.
15019	Anterior horn disease has no known cause. However, genetic factors are important in determining a person's vulnerability to this disease.
15020	Anterior knee pain syndrome can be due to muscle stress on the knee after undergoing strenuous activities. It can also be a result of friction of the knee joints after an injury.
15022	Antibiotic resistance is the result of not linked point mutations in the pathogen genome and a rate of about 1 in 108 per chromosomal duplication. Other causes are: use of antibiotics unnecessarily, using it in animal feeds in low doses, over-the-counter medicines, improper use by health professionals, failure of patient to follow course of treatment of prescribed medicine, antibiotic applied in agriculture, aquaria and domestic pets and eating uncooked foods.
15024	Bacteria is the common culprit of this disease that inhabit the intestinal tract and can be totally dangerous when left untreated. It also believed that antibiotics are also among the primary cause, the identified ones are ampicillin and clindamycin. This is mainly because antibiotics can affect the rate of digestion as well as the breakdown of food, thereby disrupting the natural balance.
15025	The disease is caused by the C. difficile bacteria which thrive in antibiotic treatments.
15028	The cause of Antisocial personality disorder is unknown. However, genetic and biological factors may play a huge role.
15030	Apart from being a genetic defect, the disease can also be aggravated by cigarette smoking, since the airways and other respiratory organs need alpha 1-antitrypsin as their protection against the effects of nicotine.
15032	Anuria is usually caused by urinary tumors, kidney stones, lassa fever, and some side effects of medications and chemicals.
15036	Aortic dissection is associated with various connective tissue disorders. Inflammation of the artery (vasculitis) is rarely associated with this condition. However, Aortic dissection can be a result of chest trauma. Aortic dissection is associated with high blood pressure, accounting to 75% to 80% patients with a previous history of hypertension. Aortic dissection occurs in patients who are 50 to 70 years old. The incidence of Aortic dissection is twice as high in males than in females with a ratio of 2:1 respectively. 50% of women who develops Aortic dissection on or before age 40 occur during pregnancy. Bicuspid aortic valve, marfan syndrome and turner syndrome all increase the risk of aortic dissection. This condition could also be a late effect of cardiac surgery.
15037	The precise etiology of SVAS is not known. Its high association with Williams syndrome, in which an elastin gene mutation is present, implies that defective connective tissue formation contributes to its pathology.
15038	This condition is caused by a number of possible conditions such as a congenital heart defect, deterioration of the valve due to aging, a rheumatic fever, endocarditis, and other possible causes that may damage the aortic valve.
15040	Some studies show that Apert syndrome occurs in an "autosomal dominant mode" for both males and females. Most cases of Apert syndrome are sporadic, suggesting that they are associated with genone environmental insults or fresh mutations. A parent with Apert syndrome is likely to pass on this condition to the offspring. Studies show that the risks of Apert syndrome increase with age of the father. It is suggested that older fathers are more likely to experience mutations in the sperm's chromosomes.
15041	The cause of aphasia is damage to several language areas of the brain, which can be the result of different conditions such as stroke, trauma or serious blows to the head, infections in the brain, tumors located in the brain and other conditions that may cause injury to the brain.
15042	The cause of Aphthous stomatitis is unknown. However, factors provoking the occurrence of Aphthous stomatitis include fatigue, illness, stress, menstrual changes, food allergies, hormonal changes, injuries from bites, dramatic weight loss and deficiencies in folic acid, iron and vitamin B12. Drugs like nicorandil can also cause Aphthous stomatitis. The most common trigger of Aphthous stomatitis is trauma to the mouth. These include dental braces, accidental biting, laceration of sharp objects and toothbrush abrasions. Other traumas include thermal injury, artificial sugars, excessive amounts of citric acid and chemical irritants. Repeat episodes of Aphthous stomatitis can be a sign of immunodeficiency, signifying low levels of immunoglobulin of the mouth. Some types of chemotherapy could cause Aphthous stomatitis.
15043	The cause of the ulcers is this cannot be precisely detected but the number of probable causes include a minor injury, a faulty immune system, an allergic response, a celiac disease or a diet that lacks vitamin b-12 and folate. It could also be due to a hormonal shift during menstruation or emotional stress.
15044	Most people have friends or relatives stung by a bee, if not experienced personally. A bee can easily victimize a child when playing outside. Since a bee sting is quite painful, resulting in swelling for several days, the development of Apiphobia is quite normal. Extreme Apiphobia in adults is usually associated with lack of knowledge. Generally, most of the public with Apiphobia is not aware that bees only attack in defense of their hives when they feel endangered. In addition, most people with Apiphobia have mistaken bees for yellowjacket wasps, which are often misidentified as bees when stung.
15045	The most common cause of Aplastic anemiais autoimmune disorder, wherein white blood cells attack and destroy the bone marrow. Aplastic anemia is also present in over 2% of all patients with acute viral hepatitis. Majority of Aplastic anemia cases are associated with exposure to substances like radiation and benzene. It may also be caused by use of various drugs, such as quinine, chloramphenical, felbamate, carbamazepine, phenylbutazone and phenytoin.
15046	Infantile apnea may occur due to airflow obstruction in the air passages or a neurological impairment of the baby's respiratory rhythm. Some cases of infantile apnea are associated with the sudden infant death syndrome. Notable symptoms include noisy breathing when asleep, tone changes, color changes (infant becoming bluish or pale) and cessation of breathing.
15047	When given anesthetics, a person with sleep apnea experiences muscle relaxation of the throat and pharynx, which causes obstruction. Apnea patients are more sensitive to ?non-obstructive? anesthetic drugs.
15048	The cause of Apocrine duct Occlusion remains unknown. However, it has been associated with rupture of the apocrine sweat ducts, which result in the inflammation and itching of the affected area. Other factors that may play a role in the development of this condition include stress, changes in sweat components, emotional and hormonal influences as well as environmental factors, like humidity, heat and friction.
15051	The exact cause of Apple peel syndrome is unknown. It has been associated with the abnormal development of the bowel during the first trimester of pregnancy. However, pregnant mothers' diet, lifestyle or other factors did not cause or can prevent this condition.
15052	Apraxia can be an acquired or developmental disorder of motor planning. However, apraxia is not caused by sensory loss, incoordination or failure to understand simple commands. Apraxia is commonly found in patients with damages to their left hemisphere, accounting to 50% of patients, while 10% of patients have damages to their right hemisphere. In addition, patients of Parkinson's disease, Huntington's disease, diseases of the basal ganglia and progressivesupranuclear palsy usually develop Apraxia as an associated symptom.
15054	Arachnitis is caused by the inflammation of the ?arachnoid lining?, one of the three linings that enclose the spinal cord and brain. Other cases are chemically-induced, infection-induced and involve multiple lumbar punctures, chronic degenerative disc diseases and advanced spinal stenosis.
15055	3 common causes: 1. Marfan's Syndrome - is a connective tissue disorder which affects the cardiovascular, skeletal system,skin and eyes. 2. Homocystinuria - a hereditary ailment that is caused by enzyme deficiency. 3. Spondylocostal dysostosis - is an uncommon condition distinguished with a short build because of a short trunk and several morphological deformities of the ribs and vertebrea because of axial skeleton malsegmentation.
15056	Studies have shown that the cause of Contractural Beals Type Arachnodactyly is a mutation or alternation in the gene FBN2.
15057	The definite cause of Arachnoid cysts is not yet determined but common causes of this disease are said to be becasue of an irregularity that occurs during development due to infections on newly born babies. According to researchers this disease arise from the mysterious breaking down of arachnoid membrane. There are cases of Arachnoid cysts that run in a family which suggests that it can be hereditary in nature. Complication arises in Arachnoid cysts when one of the cysts is destroyed due to minor head trauma. The fluid from the cyst may leak to other parts like subarachnoid space. The cyst's size increases when blood vessels on its surface breaks down.
15058	The cause of Arachnoidal Fibroblastoma is unknown.
15059	Four categories where causes of Arachnoiditis fall: A) Shock to the membrane because of spinal operation (frequently several measures B) External agents like anesthesia C) Contamination of the arachnoids D) Blood in the CSF due to shock
15061	There is no exact cause of ARDS, it will occur patient with or without respiratory problem. But it will develop if the lung is injured directly or indirectly. Directly is an injury cause by breathing of harmful substances that will develop to pneumonia, aspiration, chest injury that bruises the lungs. Indirect injury is cause by severe infection, shock and inflammation of pancreas.
15062	This disease can be a side-effect of certain cancer treatments such as radiation or chemotherapy. Other medications can also trigger the disease; it can, in some cases, be inherited.
15064	Here is a list of several causes of Arginase deficiency (Arginemia): Aminoaciduria - a disorder in protein metabolism where extra amino acids are present in the urine. Ammonia levels raised (blood) - increased level of ammonia in the blood which is a metabolic disorder. Fits - also another term for seizures Learning incapacity/Learning disability Spastic ataxia - unusual increase in smooth or skeletal muscle tone.
15067	The common causes of an arm fracture are largely due to falls and other sports injuries. It may also be due to a significant blow or trauma and elbow dislocation, child abuse and osteoporosis may also be considered as the possible causes.
15069	The underlying cause of ARVC is human genetics, typically inherited as a dominant Mendelian disease.
15071	Arsenic Poisoning is caused by the chemical arsenic which may be commonly found in pesticides, tobacco, smog, dolomite, drinking water and even in beer.
15072	The cause of arterial tortuosity is still uncertain. The easiest way to explain it is that the growth of the aorta involves any longitudinal elaboration of new tissues. Due to the fact that the beginnings of several arteries at parent vessels and their extinction at daughter branches are anatomically permanent, longitudinal development can eventually compel vessels to become tortuous.
15073	The exact cause is unknown but it is suspected to start with damage or injury to the inner layer of the artery, which can be caused by several factors such as hypertension, high cholesterol, and other conditions like diabetes.
15074	The formation and exact cause of the malformation is not yet known, though there are cases reported that it seems to develop during the first trimester of pregnancy.
15075	It is said that the formation of the lesion is still unknown although appears to grow within the first trimester of pregnancy. AVMs can be a component of the condition in numerous domestic hereditary disorders, for instance hemorrhagic telangiectasia, proteus syndrome and parkes-weber syndrome. AVMs are evaluated by phases of severity; by means of stage 1 as the slightest developed and stage 4 as the most severe.
15078	Still's disease is caused by inflammation of the lymph nodes in the joints. This swelling in turn calcifies the bone joints making them stiff and painful.
15080	Septic arthritis is caused by the spreading of bacteria through the bloodstream to a particular joint. The condition may also affect a joint that has been directly invaded by bacteria during a recent surgery and injury or trauma. Streptococcus pneumoniae, staphylococcus, and group B streptococcus organisms are the bacteria typically associated with the development of acute septic arthritis. Meanwhile, chronic septic arthritis is associated with Mycobacterium tuberculosis and Candida albicans. Other risk factors identified with septic arthritis include: chronic illness, IV drug abuse, artificial joint implants, immunosuppressant medications, rheumatoid arthritis, and sickle cell disease, among others.
15081	Currently, the specific cause of thumb arthritis is not known. However, it has been proposed that the inflammation occurs as a result of a number of factors, including being overweight, the aging process, injury or stress to the joint, heredity, and muscle weakness. Another risk factor is cumulative load to the joint, wherein repetitive use of the joint, such as in assembly line work, produces the arthritis.
15084	MLD is directly caused by a lack of the enzyme arylsulfatase A. Lacking this enzyme, sulfatides increases in several tissues of the body finally tearing down the myelin of the nervous system. Inheritance goes after an autosomal recessive guide.
15085	Asbestos Poisoning is caused by inhalation of asbestos fibers which penetrates bronchioles and alveolar walls. Person working in construction industries, fireproofing,textile industries and those industries where there is production of paints, plastics and brakes as more prone to asbestor poisoning.
15086	The known causes of Asbestosis are asbestos dust, shipbuilding, asbestos mining, asbestos manufacturing, insulation work, brake repair and smoking.
15088	Underlying heart diseases can cause ascending aortic dissection, such as aortic dilation, congenital aortic valve abnormalities, Maeran syndrome and aortic aneurysm.
15089	Ascites is caused by the accumulation of fluid in the peritoneal cavity.
15090	ASD or atrial septal defect is a congenital condition. This particular defect is believed to develop as a consequence of both genetic and environmental errors early in the heart's development. With ASD, freshly oxygenated blood flows from the left atrium to the right atrium, where it mixes with deoxygenated blood and is pumped back to the lungs, even if it has already been oxygenated. This results in an abnormal buildup of blood volume, which can overfill the lungs and consequently overexert the heart. If untreated, the right atrium may enlarge and weaken. Blood pressure in the lungs may also increase, eventually leading to pulmonary hypertension.
15094	The exact cause is not yet identified but structural anomalies in some areas of the brain and strong genetic factor is thought to be associated with the condition.
15097	Aspiration pneumonia usually results from a useless swallowing mechanism, it happens in some types of neurological disease or when a person is intoxicated. General anesthesia injected to a patient is referred to as an iatrogenic cause that is why they are instructed to be nil per os (NPO) for around four hours before operation. Any state that decreases a patient's gag impulses and/or capability to sustain an airway augments the danger of aspiration pneumonia or pneumonitis. Lesions/cuts on the intracranial mass Trauma in the head Abuse/misuse of alcohol Overdose of drugs Remote modification of the swallowing reflex related with pharyngeal ailment CVA - cerebrovascular accident
15098	1.Absence of splenic function commonly happens from a surgical removal or autosplenectomy, 2.Polysplenia and asplenia can be erratic or familial. 3.It is believed that genetic factors may play an essential part in the pathogens of congenital asplenia due to the fact that it has been accepted in several members of the same family and it is part of numerous well-known syndromes 4.Nonetheless, no particular hereditary defect has been recognized. 5.Since asplenia and polysplenia have been classified under the same family researches suggest that these defects can identify a range of associated conditions.
15099	Here are the known causes of Astasia-abasia Most physician believe that it is caused by emotional disturbance, extreme stress, or related psychiatric disorder. A lot of cases verify high occurrence of depression in affected individuals. Almost half of this patients exhibit personality disorders or frantic behaviors. This disorder is often acquired by children after sexual or physical abuse. Children may also acquire this hereditarily.
15100	Common causes of asthenia: Addison's disease Anemia Anxiety/worry Chronic fatigue/weakness syndrome Chronic pain deconditioning/inactive lifestyle Lack of fluid in the body and electrolyte disorder Depression/sadness Diabetes Fibromyalgia Heart disease Hypothyroidism Infections/contaminations Medications/prescriptions involving amiodarone and Anastrazole Narcotics Paraneoplastic syndrome Pregnancy/postpartum Pulmonary ailment Renal ailment Sleep disturbance
15102	Childhood asthma is caused by certain environmental triggers such as tobacco smoke and allergens. When exposed to such irritants, the airway muscles of affected children will tighten, constrict, and cause asthma symptoms. Triggers vary among children, but the most common triggers include: tobacco smoke, rigorous exercise, abrupt weather changes, environmental pollutants, pollen, mold, and dust mites, among several others. Other factors, such as upper respiratory infections, rhinitis or sinusitis, and GERD (gastroesophageal reflux disease) may also trigger asthma in children.
15103	The exact cause of exercise-induced asthma is currently not known; however, certain factors trigger the symptoms in susceptible individuals. These factors include: drying or cooling of the airways during heavy breathing, cold weather or dry air, high pollen counts, air pollution, recent respiratory infection, being out of shape, plus exposure to certain chemicals such as herbicides, fertilizers, pain, or chlorine. Alternatively, it is also believed that exercise-induced asthma is really just regular asthma, with exercise as the primary trigger for attacks.
15104	The cornea and the lens are the parts of the eye responsible for image focusing. In a normal eye, both parts have perfectly smooth curvature resembling a smooth ball. The cornea or lens refracts or bends incoming light and produces a sharply focused image on the retina or the back of the eye. But if distorted, light rays will not be properly refracted. This refractive error in astigmatism is caused by the cornea or lens being more steeply curved in one direction than the other. In most cases, affected patients are born with astigmatism at birth. In some cases, however, the condition develops following an eye injury, surgery, or related diseases.
15107	In 1995, Savitsky and company, a group supervised by Yosef Shiloh of Tel Aviv University in Israel, discovered the gene responsible in AT. Ionizing radiation (IR) and tendency to cancer, to chromosomal volatility, irregularities in hereditary recombination, and faulty signaling to programmed cell death and numerous cell rotation checkpoints triggered by DNA damage, are linked to the hyper-sensitivity of AT patients. In DNA damage recognition, it has been predicted that the altered gene in AT played a role in previous experiments. The predictions were verified when a one gene on chromosome 11 (11q 22-23) was found. The protein result of the ATM gene has been exposed to be a part of the eukaryotic cell phase control, DNA restoration, and DNA recombination (Lavin, 2004) since it was found. The AT gene is used as a tumor suppressor gene by way of contributing to a group of genes that connect double stranded breaks in DNA cell cycle arrest and programmed cell death. Patients are susceptible to constricting cancer.
15108	Generally, the common reason for this condition is post-surgical atelectasis which is characterized restricted breathing, splinting, and after the surgery of the abdomen. There is an increased risk for elderly patients and those that smoke. Outside the common context, atelectasis is an implication of some blockage of the bronchus or bronchiole. This could happen within the airway (it could be a mucous plug or a foreign body); outside compression of tumors, lymph nodes or tubercles; and from the wall (this is often a squamous cell carcinoma or a tumor). Another possible cause is poor surfactant spread while inspiring which causes surface tension increase. This tension tends to collapse the smaller alveoli. There are numerous kinds of atelectasis which are classified according to their underlying means or the distribution of the collapse of the alveoli; microatelectasis; resorption; and contraction atelectasis.
15108	The most common cause is post-surgical atelectasis, marked by splinting, restricted breathing after abdominal surgery. Smokers and the elderly are at an even more risk. Outside of this context, atelectasis suggets some blockage of a bronchiole or bronchus, which can be within the airway (foreign body, mucus plug), from the wall (tumor, usually squamous cell carcinoma) or compressing from the outside (tumor, lymph node, tubercle).
15110	Atheroma is said to be caused by aging, hypertension,high fat diet, smoking, obesity, physical inactivity, angina pectoris, cardiac arrest and stroke.
15112	Below are the common and rare causes that usually affect more that 1 million individuals in the US: Common: Pregnancy Rheumatic fever Systemic lupus erythematosus Rare: Ataxia telangiectasia - an unusual childhood disorder affecting progressive deterioration of the nervous system. Fahr's Syndrome - athetosis - this disorder causes calcium to be deposited in several parts of the brain which causes progressive loss of mental and motor ability. Hallervorden-Spatz disease - disorder in the nerve that results to movement problems.
15113	What caused the rapid infection is the different kinds of saprotrophic micro-organisms that is hosted by the body. The most usual fungi that caused tinea pedis are Trichophyton rubrum and T. mentagrophytes. Dermatophytosis, is the term used to refer to fungal infections and it can be transmitted by other person (anthropophilic), animals (zoophilic) or from the soil (geophilic). Infections happen when dermatophytes develop and multiply in the skin.
15115	The main cause of atopic dermatitis is still not known. Nonetheless, numerous speculations try to clarify its pathogenesis. One of the speculations suggests that fundamental metabolically or bio-chemically stimulated skin disorder which is hereditarily related to high serum immunoglobulin (Ig) E levels. A defective T-cell function is what the other theories indicate. Aggravating features of atopic dermatitis involve infections, irritants and other allergens. Though no supported connection exist among contact to inhalant allergens (like house dust) and atopic dermatitis contact with food allergens like soybeans can cause outbreak of atopic dermatitis.
15117	The most common cause of atrial fibrillation is damage or abnormality in the structure of the heart caused by diseases or conditions including long-term hypertension, heart attacks, and abnormal heart valves, and congenital heart defects, metabolic imbalances like overactive thyroid, lung diseases, viral infection, and even sleep apnea . In some cases, the cause is often unclear, this is known as lone atrial fibrillation.
15118	Atrial Flutter is said to be caused by the abnormalities of the heart or by diseases and abnormalities affecting the heart, decreased of blood flowing in the heart, coronary heart disease, atherosclerosis, high blood pressure, cardiomyopathy or disease of the heart muscle, chronic lung diseases, blood clotting in the lungs and hyperthyroidism.
15119	Since myxoma is a amin heart tumor it means that the tumor began within the heart. Several heart tumors start somewhere else. This kind of tumor is unusual and myxomas is the most usual type of this rare tumors. In the left atrium of the heart about 75% of myxoma occurs and the rest are in the right atrium. Stenosis and atrial fibrillation are usually related to right atrial myxomas. In women, myxomas are more common. A rate of 10% of myxomas is inherited and it is referred to as familial myxomas. They likely happen in several parts of the heart at a time, and frequently results to symptoms at a younger age than other myxomas.
15120	The causes if ASD is still not known. ASD causes the blood to thrust from left to right due to the pressure of the left atrial is a little higher than the right atrail pressure and this situation causes the large quantity of blood through a defect. This condition causes the right heart volume to overload affecting the right atrium, right ventricle and pulmonary arteries. Finally, the right atrium becomes larger and the right ventricle expands to contain the augmented volume of blood. Augmented pulmonary vascular conflict and right ventricular hypertrophy will follow if pulmonary artery hypertensions build up, this unusual in children. Setback of the thrust path results when there is an irrevocable pulmonary artery hypertension in some adult patients which also leads to the blood not oxygenated entering complete circulation resulting to cyanosis
15121	Atrioventricular canal defect is a congenital condition present at birth. While its exact cause is currently unknown, atrioventricular canal defect is suspected to result from some fetal growth factors affecting the fetus' normal heart development. Down syndrome, for example, is a risk factor of an infant being born with the atrioventricular canal defect.
15124	Common causes of Atrophy: poor nourishment poor circulation hormonal support loss nerve supply being lost to the target organ lack of exercise disease essential to the tissue itself
15125	The cause of attachment disorder is a subject of much debate. Various theories exist to explain the condition. It has been proposed that the disorder develops as a consequence of early emotional stress; particularly children who have been neglected, abandoned in orphanages, or have no permanent caregiver. A leading theory points to the absence of a safe, stable, and nurturing environment as the primary cause of children developing attachment disorder.
15126	Withdrawal from alcohol - causes hallucinations, insomnia, diaphoresis, and a depressed mood Anxiety - include nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, cool and clammy skin, frontal headache, back pain, insomnia, and tremors Dementia - patient may show a decrease in memory, attention span, problem-solving ability, and alertness Withdrawal from drugs - include anxiety, abdominal cramps, diaphoresis, and anorexia Hepatic encephalopathy - include drowsiness, stupor, fetor hepaticus, asterixis, and hyperreflexia Hypersensitivity reaction - moderate to severe agitation appears anaphylactic shock Hypoxemia Increased intracranial pressure (ICP) Post-head trauma syndrome Vitamin B6 deficiency
15127	Auditory Processing Disorder is said to be caused by trauma in the head, chronic ear infection, and lead poisoning.
15128	APD is caused by many factors. It can be a result of a genetic defect, or can be acquired via ear infections. It can also be due to accidents that led to trauma or lead poisoning. Older persons can also suffer from APD due to aging.
15129	There is no exact and identifiable cause for autism; but is somehow related to abnormalities in several regions of the brain and a number of gene defects.
15132	The causes are generally grouped as follows: Genetic diseases: Friedreich's ataxia, Charcot-Marie-Tooth syndrome Metabolic/Endocrine: diabetes mellitus, failure of chronic renal, porphyria, amyloidosis, failure of the liver, hypothyroidism Toxic causes: alcohol abuse, drugs (vincristine, phenytoin, isoniazid), organic metals, heavy metals Inflammatory/swelling ailments: Guillain-Barr syndrome, systemic lupus erythematosis, leprosy, Sjgren's syndrome Vitamin deficit conditions: vitamin B12, vitamin A, vitamin E, thiamin Others: malignant disease, HIV, radiation, chemotherapy A lot of secondary nervous system ailments may exhibit similarly to muscle complications (myopathesis) also it is essential to develop approaches for evaluating sensory and motor troubles in patients so that accurate diagnosis can be done by a physician.
15134	The causes of this disease is unclear though it is believed that it includes genetic factors, viral illness, pregnancy, exposure to chemicals, autoimmune disorders and shock or trauma that can damagethe autonomic nervous system.
15135	The main causes of autonomic dysreflexia are previous spinal cord injuries as well as hypertension. It is also triggered by the overfilling of the bladder.
15136	Avascular Necrosis is said to be caused by trauma to the bone such as a broken bone or fracture and dislocated joints.
15137	Avian influenza is caused by a virus that commonly affects birds. The avian virus does not typically infect humans. However, an outbreak in 1997 revealed infected human cases. It has since been determined that humans can contract the virus through close contact with infected poultry or surfaces contaminated by infected birds. Direct bird to human transmission can be traced to wild birds, which transmit the virus to domesticated birds, which are then exposed to humans as food.
15138	Avoidant Personality Disorder is a psychiatric condition with no known cause.
15139	Axillary hyperhidrosis is caused by an over stimulation of the sweat glands, and the condition can be aggravated by anxiety. Excessive sweating usually begins during adolescence.
15141	Azoospermia is said to be cause by undescended testicles, obstruction of seminal passages, infection of the testicles, hormonal disorders and high fever.
15142	B-cell lymphoma is caused by cancerous B-Cell lymphocytes that represent about 85% of the known types of lymphomas in the US, the other 2 subsets being T-Cell lymphomas, and lymphomas where the cell type is what is known as the Natural Killer Cell. B-Cells undergo many changes in their life cycle depending on complex signaling processes between cells and interaction with foreign substances in the body. Most cases of follicular lymphoma, especially those with numerous small-cleaved cells, have a gene translocation of t(14;18). This results in a rearranged and over-expressed gene called BCL-2. This gene tells the human body to produce a protein from the inner mitochondrial membrane to block programmed cell death or apoptosis. In many cases of small non-cleaved cell lymphomas, including Burkitt's, gene translocation is also present, this time the MYC gene, t(8;14). Most cases of mantle cell lymphomas rearrange the BCL-1 gene, t(11;14). Some low-grade lymphomas can develop into higher grade diseases. In Richter's transformation, for example, the small lymphocytic lymphoma promotes itself to diffuse the large cell lymphoma. Causes for this and other types of lymphoma are under constant research.
15144	Baby acne develops as a consequence of hormonal changes that occurred in the affected infant's mother during pregnancy.
15145	Baby blues is said to be cause by a sudden biological and emotional changes in mothers. The sudden change of hormones in mothers, especially those breastfeeding mothers and weariness of mothers after giving birth are said to be the caused of the baby blue.
15146	Baby bottle tooth decay is caused by the consumption of sweets such as milk and fruit juice. The bacteria that live in the mouth process the sugars and make them stick on the teeth.
15147	The disease can be transmitted to humans through a cat scratch or bite; infestation of ticks, fleas and lice can also spread the bacteria to humans.
15148	Scoliosis is idiopathic; meaning, its causes are unknown.
15149	Back pain may be caused by a number of factors affecting the muscles, bones, tendons, ligaments, and disks of the patient's spine. Strained muscles and ligaments may lead to back pain, particularly after heavy lifting or sudden awkward movements. Muscle spasms have also been known to cause back pain. In addition, certain structural problems may be involved. Bulging or ruptured disks, sciatica, arthritis, skeletal deformities, and osteoporosis have been known to contribute to back pain. In rare cases, back pain may result from serious conditions such as cauda equina syndrome, cancer in the spine, or infection of the spine.
15150	Bacteremia is said to be caused by listeriosis, pneumonia, sepsis, streptococcal infection and typoid fever.
15152	Presence of pesticides or medicines in food Improper handling of food Improper storage Improper shipping Improper slaughtering Improper marketing of domestic animals Accidental consumption of naturally toxic substances like mushrooms Some can also come from the skin or nose such as staphylococcus aureus this can cause death
15156	Bacterial vaginosis is caused by an overgrowth of bad bacteria in the vagina upsetting the balance of the bacteria. This often occurs on women with multiple sex partners, who douche, and women who use intrauterine device for birth control.
15157	Bad breath can be attributed to numerous possible causes. A person's dietary intake has been known to produce bad breath. Ingesting onions, garlic, and other foods with pungent oils will cause halitosis. Other causes include: poor dental hygiene; certain underlying dental conditions such as plaque and gingivitis; a dry mouth low in saliva; smoking tobacco; plus some diseases such as chronic lung infections, lung abscesses, and mouth, throat, and nose infections.
15159	Baillarger syndrome is caused by a defect in the parotid gland. This can be a congenital condition, or acquired after a surgery.
15160	Baker's cysts usually develop as a consequence of related problems in the knee joint, such as a cartilage tear or arthritis. Both of these conditions can cause the knee to overproduce synovial fluids, which can accumulate abnormally to form a Baker's cyst. Synovial fluids can be likened to the oil that lubricates a door hinge to reduce friction between its components as well as to minimize wear and tear. Synovial fluids are those that help the legs swing and move smoothly with minimal friction in the parts of the knees. However, if too much synovial fluid is produced, the popliteal bursa (or the tissue pouches through which the fluid circulates) fills with fluid and expands. The resulting bulge is called baker's cyst.
15162	Balanitis is said to be caused by and infection due to poor hygiene in men that are not circumcised. Diseases like Reactive arthritis, lichen sclerosis diabetes are also said to cause the medical condition in men.
15164	The specific cause of baldness depends largely on its type. Pattern Baldness is linked to a number of genetic factors. Scarring or cicatrical alopecia is usually caused by skin conditions which inflame and damage hair follicles. Alopecia areata is an autoimmune disease with currently no identified cause, although it is believed to be hereditary. Telogen effluvium is caused by a change in the normal hair cycle. Meanwhile, traction alopecia is caused by extreme hairstyle changes that pull the hair too firmly, scarring and damaging the roots, and eventually leading to hair loss. Other potential causes of hair loss are as follows: low iron diet, poor nutrition, ingestion of certain medications such as birth control pills, diseases such as diabetes or lupus, hormonal changes, exposure to hair treatments, scalp infections, and a hair-pulling disorder known as trichotillomania.
15164	The specific cause of baldness depends largely on its type. Pattern Baldness is linked to a number of genetic factors. Scarring or cicatrical alopecia is usually caused by skin conditions which inflame and damage hair follicles. Alopecia areata is an autoimmune disease with currently no identified cause, although it is believed to be hereditary. Telogen effluvium is caused by a change in the normal hair cycle. Meanwhile, traction alopecia is caused by extreme hairstyle changes that pull the hair too firmly, scarring and damaging the roots, and eventually leading to hair loss. Other potential causes of hair loss are as follows: low iron diet, poor nutrition, ingestion of certain medications such as birth control pills, diseases such as diabetes or lupus, hormonal changes, exposure to hair treatments, scalp infections, and a hair-pulling disorder known as trichotillomania.
15167	If the heart is functioning normally, the mitral valve closes when the left ventricle contracts to prevent blood flow into the left atrium. In patients with ballooning mitral valve syndrome, the mitral valve malfunctions and fails to close. The condition may be caused by abnormalities in the mitral valve, including the presence of extra tissue, which keep the valve from closing properly. This disease is believed to be hereditary.
15171	Barber's itch results from damage of hair follicles, which may be caused by: repetitive friction from shaving or wearing tight clothes; excessive perspiration; inflammatory skin diseases; recent injuries to the skin; as well as exposure to coat, pitch, tar, or creosote, as in the case of mechanics, roofers, and oil workers.
15178	Barlow's syndrome is a congenital disorder present at birth. It is also believed to be caused by underlying conditions such as rheumatic fever.
15179	Barmah Forest virus is said to be caused by a virus that is usually carried by mosquitoes.
15180	Barotitis media is caused by the eardrums bulging outward or retracting inward during a change in air pressure. Normally, the air pressure in the middle ear is equal to that of the outer ear, because the Eustachian tube opens and allows air to flow in and out of the middle ear, thus equalizing the pressure. However, if the Eustachian tube is obstructed, differences in pressure can occur between both sides of the eardrum, thus leading to barotitis media.
15181	Barotrauma is caused by rapid changes of pressure between the air space inside and outside the body. In scuba diving, if proper equalizing and standard safety stops between certain depths are not followed, severe barotrauma may result.
15182	While the exact cause is not known, but this condition is usually observed in individuals who have GERD.
15184	BTHS gene mutations are related with cardiolipin molecules in the electron transport chain and the mitochondrial membrane formation. The length of the gene is 6,234 bases, 11 exons/10 introns, mRNA of 879 nucleotides, and amino acid sequence of 292 with a weight of 33.5 kDa. It is seen in the Xq28, the X chromosome long arm. The disease is a result of 60% frameshift, stop, or splice-site modification and 30% change in protein's charge. The disease is found entirely in males.
15185	Bartholin cyst is caused by an abnormal accumulation of fluid when the vaginal opening becomes blocked or obstructed, such as by a flap of skin. Bartholin cyst may become infected with a number of bacteria and cause abscess.
15186	A Bartholin's abscess typically forms when a tiny opening or duct from the gland is blocked. This causes fluid buildup in the gland that may become infected. However, this medical condition is not caused by any sexually transmitted diseases.
15189	Basal cell cancer most likely develops as a result of years of exposure to the sun's UV (ultraviolet) radiation. The process of skin cell death and renewal is controlled by an individual's DNA. In healthy skin, new skin cells normally "push" older skin cells towards the epidermis (the surface of the skin), where they are sloughed off. However, when the DNA has a defect, the individual's old and new skin cells no longer behave as they should. Instead, new skin cells grow without direction and control, thus potentially forming a cancerous tumor known as basal cell carcinoma. Certain environmental factors are also believed to play a role in basal cell cancer development, including: skin damage due to UV exposure, therapeutic radiation, certain chemical toxins, and ingestion of immunosuppressant drugs. In addition, there are a few genetic disorders that predispose individuals to basal cell cancer, such as: Bazex's syndrome, Gorlin's syndrome, and Xeroderma pigmentosum.
15192	The specific cause of basal joint arthritis, as with most forms of osteoarthritis, is currently not known. It is believed that the condition results from a combination of the following factors: obesity, aging, recent stress or injury to the joint, muscle weakness, and constant pressure on the basal joints. Basal joint arthritis is also associated with hereditary conditions, such as malformed joints and joint ligament laxity.
15194	Bassen-Kornzweig syndrome is an autosomal recessive disorder.
15196	To date, the exact cause of BDD is not clear. Current theories point to the following risk factors for BDD: brain chemical imbalance, obsessive compulsive disorder, eating disorder, generalized anxiety disorder, as well as certain psychological, behavioral, and cultural factors.
15198	The possible causes of Beau's lines are from injuries such as chronic picking or rubbing of the skin behind the nail which can cause a washboard nail and crushing the base of the nail or the nail bed which may cause a permanent deformity. Another cause is from infections such as fungus or yeast which cause changes in the color, shape and the texture of the nails. Diseases such as disorders that affect the amount of oxygen in the blood can cause clubbing and poisons such as arsenic-poisoning may cause white line and horizontal ridges.
15199	Becker's muscular dystrophy is caused by mutations in the dystrophin gene, which encodes the protein dystrophin. It is related to Duchenne muscular dystrophy in that both result from a mutation in the dystrophin gene, but in the latter, no functional dystrophin is produced, making it much more severe than BMD. It also progresses at a much slower rate as compared to Duchenne muscular dystrophy. Both muscular dystrophies have traditionally been called "X-linked" recessive diseases, but in view of modern molecular biology and identification of the dystrophin gene, it might be more appropriate to say that they are X-chromosome recessive diseases. Since women have two X chromosomes, if one of the chromosomes has the defective gene, the second X chromosome will have a working copy of the gene to compensate for it. In these cases, there are some women who have much milder symptoms because of this ability to compensate. On the other hand, because men have an X and a Y chromosome, and because they don't have another X to compensate for the defective gene, they will develop symptoms of BMD if they inherit the defective gene.
15201	The disease is an autosomal recessive syndrome.
15202	Bed-wetting has no known cause; however, a combination of factors may play a role, including: a small bladder; inability to consciously recognize a full bladder; hormonal imbalance; urinary tract infection; exposure to stressful events; sleep apnea; diabetes; anatomical defects; or chronic constipation.
15203	Bedbugs that hide during the day and comes out at night time to look for blood are the responsible for bedbug bites. It has a special element in its saliva that keeps blood from clotting while it is feeding itself with blood by sucking in any mammal. They are usually found in bed sheets, bed and messy places.
15204	Sustained pressure on a certain body part restricts blood flow; depriving tissue of oxygen causing irreversible damage and death to the tissue. Constant friction and shearing can also damage the skin, leading to bedsores.
15205	Bee and wasp inject venom by stinging individuals. The venom usually causes direct injury to the body oftentimes confined to the site of the sting. In rare cases, systemic allergic reaction may occur.
15206	The causes of this syndrome are unknown. It is thought to be caused by a combination of hereditary and environmental factors. The HLA-B51 allele, which is one of the split antigens of B5, is commonly found in Asian and Middle Eastern patients, yet it is rare to find in northern European and North American patients. Infections may play a pathogenic role, as people who have Behet's syndrome generally have a much higher incidence of antibodies to herpes simplex virus, hepatitis C virus, and parvovirus B19. Streptococcal antigens have also been implicated; a trial of prophylactic penicillin treatment was found to decrease the number of acute arthritis episodes in patients with Behet's syndrome. Nearly all of the symptoms of Behet's disease are due to blood vessel inflammation. Doctors aren't quite sure what causes this inflammation. It is thought that some people may have a problem with the immune system that gives them a higher chance to develop the disease. For these people, contact with substances in the environment, such as bacteria or viruses, may cause their immune system to attack the blood vessels. Behet's disease is not contagious and will not spread from one person to another.
15209	It is thought that an inflammatory condition leads to the swelling of the facial nerve known as nervus facialis. This nerve travels through the skull in a narrow bone canal beneath the ear. Nerve swelling and compression in the narrow bone canal are thought to lead to nerve damage, inhibition or death. There are no readily identifiable causes for Bell's Palsy, but clinical and experimental evidence suggests that herpes simplex type 1 infection may play a role.
15212	Benign essential blepharospasm is thought to be due to the abnormal functioning of the basal ganglia which are situated at the base of the brain. The basal ganglia play a role in all coordinated movements the body makes. It is still unknown what goes wrong in the basal ganglia. A disturbance of various "messenger" chemicals may be involved in transmitting information from one nerve cell to another. In most people, blepharospasm develops all of a sudden with no known precipitating factor. However, it has been observed that the signs and symptoms of dry eye frequently happen before or occur together with blepharospasm. One suggestion is that dry eye may trigger the onset of blepharospasm in susceptible persons. Less frequently may be a familial disease with more than one person in the family affected. Blepharospasm can occur together with dystonia affecting the mouth or jaw. In such cases, spasms of the eyelids occur together with clenching or mouth opening, grimacing, and tongue protrusion. Blepharospasm can be also induced by drugs, such as those used to treat Parkinson's disease. When it is due to antiparkinsonian drugs, reducing the dose helps alleviate the problem.
15214	Though twitching may sometimes be a symptom of serious diseases such as spinal injury, muscular dystrophy, Lyme's Disease, or Lou Gehrig's Disease, it is much more often due to more benign causes like BFS or over-exertion. Virtually everyone will experience some episodes of benign fasciculation at least once during their lifetime. The cause of BFS is unknown. What is unknown, also, is if it's a disease of the motor nerves, the muscles, or the neuromuscular junction. Mitsikostas and company found that fasciculations "were slightly correlated to the body weight and height and to the anxiety level" in normal subjects. Another factor that seems to be commonly found in many cases is a history of regular strenuous exercise. Attention deficit disorder (ADD) or a related disorder may also be a contributing factor, and people with essential tremor (ET) appear to have a greater than normal likelihood of developing BFS. Additionally, there are likely other genetic and environmental factors that make the patient more susceptible to this syndrome. Some intriguing similarities between BFS and chronic organophosphate poisoning can be found, but these similarities have not been explored. It may be that chronically elevated levels of stress hormones in the body can cause damage similar to the damage caused by organophosphates.
15215	The exact causes of BIH are unknown, but risk factors include obesity and the use of certain antibiotics.
15216	The organ of balance, located inside the inner ear, is the vestibular labyrinth. It includes loop-shaped structures (semicircular canals) that contain fluid and tiny, hair-like sensors that monitor the rotation of your head. These canals all attach to the utricle, where tiny granules or crystals of calcium carbonate (otoconia) are contained in. These particles are attached to sensors that help detect gravity and a person's back-and-forth motion. BPPV occurs when particles within the labyrinth loosen and float in the fluid. In certain positions they can disturb the nerve endings associated with balance, giving a spurious signal of movement and causing a brief sensation of spinning around. BPPV is most often a result of growing older. It can also occur after a blow to one's head. Less common causes of BPPV include a virus affecting the ear, or the combination of trauma to the ear during ear surgery and prolonged supine position (lying on your back) during the procedure. Doctors can usually determine the cause of BPPV. It may require a consultation with an ear, nose and throat specialist or a doctor who specializes in the brain and nervous system, or a neurologist. Sometimes, however, no cause can be determined. Other triggers of BPPV are changes in barometric pressure, lack of sleep, visual exposure to nearby moving objects, and tilting of the head.
15217	Changes in testosterone and estrogen levels in men as they age are associated to stimulate the prostate to grow out of the normal size. This is only considered as a theory because the real cause of benign prostatic hyperplasia is still unknown.
15218	The condition is believed to be associated with aging. The underlying cause though is not yet determined.
15220	Bereavement is caused by the trauma of sudden, unexpected loss of a loved one. There a persons who take a lot of time to accept reality such that they tend to relive the memories of the past.
15221	Berger's disease may result from a combination of genetic and environmental factors. For example, it is more common in Asian males. However, the exact gene or genes responsible for it have not been discovered. Since immunoglobulin A plays a role in fighting upper respiratory tract infections, it is possible to suppose that something in the environment triggers IgA production in individuals at risk. Berger's disease usually occurs in people between the ages of 15 and 35, but since it takes up to 25 years to lead to damage in some people, it may not be diagnosed until middle age. It is more common in Native Americans and Caucasians but rare in African-Americans. Berger's disease is one of the leading causes of chronic kidney disease involving the glomeruli (glomerulonephritis) in young people in the US, Europe, and Japan. As many as one third or more of patients with this disease will suffer severe progressive kidney damage.
15222	Beriberi is caused by a lack of vitamin B1, thiamine. It is common in people whose diet is comprised mainly of polished white rice, which has very low thiamine content because the thiamine-rich husk has been removed. It is also seen in chronic alcoholics with inadequate diets, as well as being an uncommon side effect of gastric bypass surgery. If an infant is mainly fed on the milk of a mother who is suffering from thiamine deficiency then that child may develop beriberi. The disease has been traditionally found in people from Asian countries (especially in the 19th century and before), because of those countries' reliance on white rice as a staple food. Beriberi is a nutritional disorder that is caused by deficiency of vitamin B and characterized by damage to nerves and heart; general symptoms include loss of appetite and feeling of lethargy.
15223	It is caused by a mutation in the gene NBS1. Berlin breakage syndrome is a disease with an autosomal recessive pattern of inheritance. Interfamily matings have been reported. The gene responsible for NBS, designated as NBS1, is located on the 8q21 band. This NBS1 gene is made up of 16 exons and spans a DNA region of more than 50 kilobases. All disease-causing mutations identified to this day have been found within exons 6-10 in the NBS1 gene and which led to the production of a shortened protein.
15224	Bernard-Soulier disease is an autosomal recessive disorder that affects the short arm (p) of chromosome 17.
15225	Berylliosis, or CBD, is an occupationally acquired lung disease caused by exposure to beryllium, either by inhalation or contact through broken skin. Genetic predisposition seems to have play a majot role in the development of berylliosis. A variant of the major histocompatibility complex HLA-DPb1( or Glu 69) was found in 97% of patients with the disease and only in 30% of controls. In this genetic variant, glutamine is delievered instead of lysine at position 69 of the beta region of class II of the major histocompatibility complex. This genotype marks the susceptibility to CBD, but it is cannot be utilized as a screening test due to its high prevalence in the general population of less than 30%.
15226	No direct cause of sarcoidosis can been identified, though reports of cell wall deficient bacteria that may be possible pathogens have been reported. These bacteria are generally not identified in standard laboratory analysis. It has been suggested that there may be a hereditary factor because there are some families with multiple members affected with sarcoidosis. To date, no reliable genetic markers have been targeted, and an alternate hypothesis is that family members share a similar exposure to environmental pathogens. Transmission of sarcoidosis via organ transplants have also been reported. Sarcoidosis has been traced to celiac disease. Celiac disease is a condition wherein there is a chronic reaction to certain protein chains, commonly known as glutens, found in some cereal grains. This reaction causes the destruction of the villi in the small intestine, which results malabsorption of nutrients.
15227	Mutations in the HBB gene cause beta thalassemia to develop. Hemoglobin consists of four protein subunits, with two subunits called alpha hemoglobin and two subunits called beta hemoglobin. The HBB gene provides instructions for making more beta hemoglobin. Some mutations in the HBB gene hinder the production of beta hemoglobin. The absence of beta hemoglobin is known as beta-zero (B0) thalassemia. With other HBB mutations, there may be production of some beta hemoglobin but in lower than normal amounts. A dicreased amount of beta hemoglobin is called beta-plus (B+) thalassemia. The loss of beta hemoglobin results to a diminished amount of hemoglobin. Without enough hemoglobin, red blood cells do not develop normally. The low number of mature red blood cells results to complications of anemia and other medical problems. Thalassemia major and thalassemia intermedia are inherited in autosomal-recessively, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. Most often, the parents of a person with an autosomal recessive condition each carry a copy of the mutated gene, but these typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition. Sometimes, though, carriers of the altered HBB gene have a mild anemia referred to as thalassemia minor. In a small percentage of families, the HBB mutation is inherited autosomal-dominantly. In cases like these, one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder.
15231	To date, bile duct cancer has no definite cause. However, chronic inflammatory processes such as parasitic infections of the bile ducts are believed to play a role. In addition, the disease is also closely associated with congenital abnormalities of the bile ducts.
15232	Bile reflux is caused by failure of pyloric valve that connects the small intestine and stomach to close properly, allowing potentially toxic digestive juices to flow back into the stomach. Damage to the pyloric valve may be caused by complications in gastric or gallbladder surgery as well as peptic ulcer. Meanwhile, bile that refluxes into the esophagus is caused by the malfunctioning of the esophageal sphincter, which separates the esophagus and stomach.
15233	Biliary atresia results when the bile ducts inside or outside the liver do not develop normally. It is unknown why the biliary system fails to develop normally. The bile ducts aid in removing waste from the liver and carry salts that help the small intestine break down fat. In babies with biliary atresia, bile flow from the liver to the gallbladder is hindered. This can cause liver damage and cirrhosis of the liver, which is deadly if not treated.
15234	The exact cause of primary biliary cirrhosis is unknown, but it appears to be an immune system disorder that slowly destroys the bile ducts in the liver. Genetics and the environment may also play a role in this disease. Most evidence points out that primary biliary cirrhosis is an immune system disorder. The initial inflammation starts with T lymphocytes (T cells) - white blood cells that normally recognize and help defend against bacteria and fungi. T cells invade and kill the epithelial cells lining the small bile ducts. The T cells also give out chemicals that stimulate the epithelial cells to produce proteins that attract more T cells, thereby creating an ongoing cycle of damage. This is a classic autoimmune scenario - a case in which the body's immune system fights against its own cells. Not everything, though, about primary biliary cirrhosis is classic. For one thing, it rarely occurs in young children, even though autoimmune disorders often begin in childhood. For another, unlike most autoimmune diseases, primary biliary cirrhosis does not generally respond to drugs that suppress the immune system.
15235	The exact cause of binge-eating disorder is not known, but the following factors may play a role: biological or genetic vulnerability affecting the appetite; psychological and emotional characteristics related to low self-worth and compulsive tendencies; and sociocultural factors that cultivate a desire for thinness.
15237	Biotin Deficiency is said to be caused by deficiency in biotin due to prolonged antibiotic intake, eating raw eggs and anticonvulsant drugs.
15240	Bird flu is caused by an avian influenza virus, which has three known strains: influenza A; influenza B; and influenza C. The bird flu virus is transmitted to humans through contact with infected poultry or exposure to surfaces contaminated by infected birds. It is more common in areas where humans live close to chickens and pigs. The disease starts with infected wild birds, which shed the virus through droppings, saliva, and nasal secretions. The virus is then transmitted to domesticated poultry via direct contact with these wild birds or through contaminated water, feed, or soil. Open-air markets where poultry and eggs are sold are breeding grounds for infection and spread the disease to a bigger population.
15241	The cause of most birthmarks in not known. Certainly they are not caused by anything done or not done during pregnancy. In some cases, they can be inherited but most cases are not.
15242	The plague was then believed to be caused by the strain Yersinia pestis, which was brought to England via migrants that came from Central Asia. It was spread by rats.
15243	Black eye is said to be cause by a blow in the eye or the area near the eyes such as the nose which may cause the swelling of the nasal injury which causes the fluid to collect in the loose tissues located in the eyelead, it may also be cause by allergic reactions, cellulites or skin infections around the eyes and dental infections.
15244	The build-up of fine coal dust particles in the lungs causes thickening and scarring resulting to impairment of the lung in its normal function of supplying oxygen to the blood, which may result to either respiratory or right-side heart failure.
15245	Blackheads develop as a consequence of excessive skin oil, sebum, dead skin cells and congesting toxins being expelled through the skin. These congesting toxins, along with excess oil and sebum, clogs the skin pores and cause blockheads. Dirt, which can also obstruct the pores, is another contributing factor to blockheads.
15246	Bladder calculi develop when urine sits or stagnates in the bladder for an extended period of time, which may, in turn, be caused by an underlying condition that affects the bladder's ability to excrete urine. Some of the conditions associated with bladder calculi formation are: benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH); neurogenic bladder; and bladder diverticula. In addition, inflammation due to an infection and medical devices inserted through the urethra are also believed to cause bladder calculi.
15247	Bladder cancer occurs when healthy cells in the bladder develop mutations leading to the development of abnormal cells that can grow out and outnumber healthy cells which can result to the formation of tumor.
15248	Loss of bladder control is a symptom; not a disease. It is usually caused by some underlying condition that needs to be treated. Normally, the bladder sends a nerve signal to the brain to indicate that it is full. At appropriate circumstances, the body responds by relaxing the pelvic floor muscles and contracting the bladder, allowing urine to pass through. When loss of bladder control occurs, the brain does not realize that the bladder is full, causing the latter to empty on its own without conscious control. Some factors that may lead to loss of bladder control include: ingesting large amounts of diuretics, over-hydration, dehydration, bladder irritation, some types of medications, and other related illnesses or injuries.
15249	Bladder infections are caused by bacterial invasion of the urinary tract. Normally, urine contains a number of fluids, salts, and waste products; however, it does not contain bacteria. When bacterium invades the bladder and multiplies in the urine, it causes a bladder infection. An organism known as Escherichia coli, or E. coli, is the most common bacterium that infects the urinary tract.
15250	The exact cause of bladder inflammation is currently not known. However, it is believed to be caused by a combination of autoimmune, infectious, hereditary, and allergic conditions. One theory links the condition to a deformity or malfunction of the protective epithelium of the bladder.
15251	Exposure to environmental carcinogens of different types is responsible for the development of most bladder cancers. Tobacco use (specifically cigarette smoking) is thought to cause half of bladder cancers discovered in male patients and 30% of those found in female patients Thirty percent of bladder tumors most likely result from occupational exposure in the workplace to carcinogens such as benzidine. Occupations at risk for bladder neoplasm are metal industry workers, rubber industry workers, workers in the textile industry and people who work in printing. Some studies also suggest that auto mechanics have a higher risk of bladder cancer due to their frequent exposure to hydrocarbons and petroleum-based chemicals. Hairdressers are thought to be at risk for the disease as well because of their frequent exposure to permanent hair dyes. It has been proposed that hair dyes are one of the risk factors, and some have shown an odds ratio of 2.1 to 3.3 for risk of developing bladder cancer among women who use permanent hair dyes, while others have shown no association between the use of hair dyes and bladder cancer.
15252	Bladder Papilloma is said to be caused by the a benign prostatic hyperplasia, by a cancer in the bladder and a bladder calculi. Multiple sclerosis and prostate cancer may also cause the medical condition inasmuch as there us an interruption of upper motor neuron control of the bladder.
15253	Bladder stones form when concentrated urine sits in the bladder and its materials crystallize. Bladder stones are generally caused by underlying urologic problems, including neurogenic bladder, bladder diverticulum, urinary tract infection, or an enlarged prostate.
15254	A prolapsed bladder may develop as a result of excessive straining, such as during childbirth, heavy lifting, or chronic constipation. Menopause has also been known to play a role, particularly as estrogen levels decrease. Older females who had given birth several times are more prone to this condition.
15255	Blastocystis hominis infection is caused by a relatively harmless yeast known as B. hominis. Although considered harmless, this single-celled organism is a parasite, behaving like a tiny animal and hunts other microbes for food. Blastocystis hominis infection may be transmitted through oral-fecal contact, often as a consequence of inadequate sanitation or poor hygiene.
15258	Common causes of bleeding can start from the: Esophagus: inflammation (esophagitis), enlarged veins (varices), tear (Mallory-Weiss syndrome), cancer, liver disease Stomach: ulcers, inflammation (gastritis), cancer Small intestine: duodenal ulcer, inflammation (irritable bowel disease), cancer Large intestine and rectum: hemorrhoids, infections, inflammation (ulcerative colitis), colorectal polyps, colorectal cancer, diverticular disease
15259	Bleeding varices are brought about by liver cirrhosis. They can also be aggravated by alcohol abuse and hepatitis.
15260	Blepharitis is a chronic condition that can affect the outer portion of the eyelid where the eyelashes attach or the inner portion of the eyelid that comes into contact with the eye. Some conditions associated with blepharitis include seborrheic dermatitis (dandruff of the scalp and eyebrows), a bacterial infection, malfunctioning oil glands in the eyelid and rosacea, a skin condition characterized by facial redness Blepharitis may also be caused by a combination of factors. Less commonly, blepharitis may be caused by allergies or even an infestation of lice on the eyelashes.
15262	The causes of Blepharospasm are largely unknown, although some educated guesses are being made. In most cases, blepharospasm seems to appear spontaneously. Some blepharospasm patients have a history of dry eyes or light sensitivity, but others report no previous eye problems before onset of initial symptoms. Blepharospasm may also come from the abnormally-functioning basal ganglia. Combinations with dry eye, as well as other dystonias such as Meige's syndrome have been observed. The condition can be caused by concussions in some rare cases, when a blow to the back of the head damages the basal ganglia.
15263	Blind loop syndrome may be triggered by a number of factors, including: as a consequence of undergoing recent gastric surgery such as gastric bypass surgery for obesity and Billroth II or Roux-en-Y procedures for ulcers; along with a range of medical conditions that may lead to bacterial growth, such as scheroderma and diabetes.
15264	Blindness may be caused by a congenital abnormality. Brain infections and infections occurring in the retina of the eye. Certain tumors such as eye tumors or optic nerve tumors. Certain diseases may cause loss of vision. Traumatic injury from explosions, fireworks and pellet guns.
15266	Pulmonary embolism is caused by underlying illnesses; it can also be an effect of hypertension and high blood pressure. Older people as well as those who are overweight are prone to this condition.
15267	The condition is causes by a variety of reasons, among them are underlying prostate diseases. Minor trauma and irritation may also cause ruptures in the blood vessels in the prostate area.
15268	The platelet count may go down if the bone marrow does not produce enough platelets. Leukemia, lymphomas, infection with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV, which causes AIDS), and a variety of other bone marrow disorders can create this effect. Or the platelet count may decrease if the spleen increases in size and traps platelets. Thus, fewer platelets reside in the bloodstream. Myelofibrosis and some forms of cirrhosis can also create this effect. The body may utilize or destroy too many platelets. HIV infection, lupus (systemic lupus erythematosus), idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura, thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura, and hemolytic-uremic syndrome cause this effect. Some drugs, such as heparin and certain antibiotics, also create this effect. In idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura, the immune system produces abnormal antibodies that can destroy the body's platelets. The reason for this happening is unknown. The bone marrow produces more platelets to make up for it but cannot keep up with the demand. Taking heparin may also lead to a low platelet count. Heparin is a drug that causes the blood to clot less (anticoagulant). But ironically, it sometimes stimulates clot formation. Then the platelet count goes down because so many platelets are used up. Drinking alcohol may lead in a low platelet count by damaging the bone marrow. Aspirin, nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), and antihistamines may hinder with how platelets function, although the platelet count remains normal.
15269	Blood poisoning is caused by bacterial infection due to open wounds, poor sanitation, food poisoning and consumption of contaminated water.
15270	There is no definite cause for primary hypertension, which occurs in roughly 90 percent of cases. In 5 to 10 percent of cases, the cause is most probably an underlying condition, in which case it is known as secondary hypertension. Some conditions which can bring about hypertension are adrenal gland tumors, kidney abnormalities, certain congenital heart defects, and others. Some medications and illicit drugs are also known to increase blood pressure.
15271	Symptomatic low blood pressure may be caused by serious underlying heart, endocrine, or neurological disorders. Pregnancy, blood loss, infections, dehydration, allergic reactions, nutritional deficiencies, and certain medications may also trigger low blood pressure.
15272	The condition is inherited with an autosomal recessive pattern of inheritance. Its gene locus is called band 15q26.1. Cytogenetic findings in a Bloom syndrome patient with acute myeloid leukemia of the French-American-British subtype M1 showed an occurrence of total or partial loss of chromosome 7. Mutation of the DNA ligase I gene may also account for the primary metabolic defect in Bloom syndrome, not because of a reduction in the number of protein molecules or to inhibitory substances, but rather to the ATP-binding and hydrolytic activity of the enzyme. DNA ligase I and DNA polymerase alpha are enzymes that function during DNA replication; DNA ligase II and DNA polymerase-beta work during DNA repair.
15275	The cause of blue diaper syndrome is not really known. It is thought to be caused by a defect in tryptophan absorption. This happens when bacterial degradation of the tryptophan in the intestine occurs, leading to excessive production of indole then to indicanuria. Once the baby's urine is expelled, it turns a light blue which causes a peculiar bluish discoloration of the baby's diaper. Recent research indicates that some mutations found in the LAT2 and TAT1 genes may be involved in bringing about this syndrome. Other mutations may be caused by base substitutions or by transcription factors that may not be able to start the transcription process. This, in turn, leads to no translation taking place and the enzyme may not be made. The enzyme is a crucial factor as it is needed for absorption. An inherited form of disease called familial hypercalcemia may cause the urine to turn blue due to the high amount of calcium the body produces. It has also been suggested that the bluish urine is caused by the blue-green discoloration of the infant's stool, likely to be brought about by a pigment produced by the bacteria Pseudomonas aeruginosa.
15276	The causes of BRBNS are unknown. Most cases are sporadic, but there have been reports of autosomal dominance. The disorder has not been traced to a specific chromosome or gene defect. Not more than a few hundred cases have been described worldwide.
15278	Body lice that causes typhus is known as Rickettsia prowazeki, which is contracted by humans via body contact with an infected person. This parasite can cause two three kinds: the epidemic louse-borne typhus, and the Brill-Zinsser disease.
15279	Sweating may occur after exercise, exposure to high temperature, hot flashes, or any type of physical activity. Body odor usually results as a consequence of sweating accompanied by poor hygiene. Excessive sweating, known medically as hyperhidrosis, can be caused by a combination of factors, including: hereditary factors; dietary choices such as ingesting spicy foods, some types of drugs, and certain beverages; menopause and hormonal changes in women; low blood sugar; fevers; overactive thyroid; tuberculosis; malaria; and some types of carcinomas.
15280	Furuncles are generally caused by an infection of the hair follicles by Staphylococcus aureus or Staphylococcus epidermidis. This is a strain of bacteria that normally lives on the surface of the skin. It has been suggested that a tiny cut on the skin allows this bacterium to enter the follicles and cause an infection. This can occur while bathing or when using a razor. Boils may also be brought about by other bacteria or fungi. People with immune system disorders, diabetes, poor hygiene or malnutrition are particularly susceptible to developing boils; they, however, also occur in healthy, hygienic individuals due to over scratching a particular area of the skin. Hidradenitis suppurativa causes frequent boils, and boils found in the armpits can sometimes be caused by anti-perspirant deodorants. The development of boils throughout the body may also be a symptom of smallpox.
15281	Staph bacteria (Staphylococcus aureus) generally cause boils, when one or more hair follicles become infected. These bacteria are responsible for a number of serious diseases, including pneumonia and meningitis which normally inhabit your skin and sometimes your nasal passages and throat.
15282	Generally, there is no known cause for most primary bone cancers, but there are few cases where hereditary component is linked to the development of the cancer. There are also cases associating excessive exposure to radiation therapy as a risk factor in developing bone cancer.
15283	An infection may travel to a bone through the bloodstream or by spreading from a nearby tissue. Some infections also start with an infection in the bone itself, particularly when the bone suffers from trauma and becomes exposed to invasive germs. Infections of the bone typically occur in the leg bone and upper arm bone, but may also affect the vertebrae, foot bone, pelvic bone, and collarbone.
15284	Bone loss is usually caused by insufficient levels of calcium, phosphorus, and other minerals in the body, all of which contribute to bone strength and density. When bones lack these essential minerals, they weaken and eventually lose their internal supporting structure.
15286	Bone spurs are commonly caused by an underlying disease, most frequently by osteoarthritis. The latter weakens the cartilage of the joints, and the body compensates by attempting to repair the loss. As a result, new areas of bone are created along the edges of existing bones. Other conditions which can cause bone spurs are: diffuse idiopathic skeletal hyperostosis (DISH); plantar fasciitis; spondylosis; and spinal stenosis.
15287	The condition can be inherited based on studies about genetics. Environmental factors including past childhood history of abuse in any form including abandonment and neglection from loved ones. Brain irregularities in areas concerned with regulation of emotions and behavior.
15289	Bornhols Disease is said to be caused by a viral virus names as the Coxsackievirus.
15291	Lyme disease is from the Gram-negative spirochetal bacteria from the genus Borrelia. At least 37 Borrelia species have been described, 12 of which are related to Lyme. The Borrelia species known to cause Lyme disease are collectively known as Borrelia burgdorferi sensu lato, and have been found to have a higher strain diversity than previously estimated. Until recently it was thought that only these three genospecies caused Lyme disease: B. afzelii, and also B. garinii (both found in Eurasia), and B. burgdorferi sensu stricto (predominantly found in North America, but also in Europe). However, newly discovered genospecies have also been found to give the disease to humans. There are over 300 strains of Borrelia world wide and it is presently unknown how many of these cause lyme, but many of them may.
15295	Bovine TB is caused by Mycobacterium bovis and it is mainly found in cattle, deer, elk, bison and goats.
15296	Constipation stretches and weakens the muscle of the anus making the nerves in the anus less responsive to the presence of stool in the rectum. Diarrhea is characterized by loose stool that is hard to retain in the rectum, therefore causing bowel incontinence. Damage to the anal or rectal muscle and nerve often worsen the condition as well as rectal prolapsed and loss of muscle strength due to age.
15297	Bowel Onstruction is said to be cause by an obstruction in the digestive tracts due to bowel compressions or entrapment.
15298	Bowen's disease can be caused by chronic UV radiation. Sun-exposed distribution of Bowen disease (over half of lesions occur on the head, neck, and hands) implicates chronic sun damage as one factor in its formation. Arsenic exposure is another cause. The main sources of arsenic exposure include Gay solution, a medication formerly used to treat asthma; Fowler solution, a medication formerly used to treat psoriasis; and contaminated well water; and certain pesticides. Another cause is the Human papilloma virus. HPV 16 is by far the most common subtype traced from lesions of Bowen disease, although other subtypes, such as HPV 2, also have been found. Other possible causes include trauma, genetic factors, other chemical carcinogens, and x-ray radiation.
15299	The main symptom for the disease is a clove of bulging mass that develops in the outer ear, which seems to look like a cauliflower.
15300	Most cases of brachial plexus injuries are those that are brought about by collisions in contact sports like football. Damage to the nerves in the brachial plexus can occur during childbirth when force is used to pull the baby stuck within the birth canal. Trauma due to vehicular accidents or wounds inflicted by bullet or knife can also bring damage to nerves in the brachial plexus.
15302	Bradycardia may be caused by either a malfunction in the heart's natural pacemaker (called the sinus node) or by a disruption of the electrical impulse that signal the atria to contract.
15303	Bradycardia-tachycardia syndrome is commonly caused by a coronary artery disease. Typically, the sinus node malfunctions due to scarring or damage to the electrical system of the heart. However, some medications such as calcium channel blockers or beta blockers have been observed to trigger episodes of rapid switching between slow and fast heartbeats. In addition, the condition is also linked to age-related wear and tear to the heart muscles.
15304	Bradykinesia can be caused by functional disorders and Parkinson's disease.
15305	Most brain aneurysms typically develop due to the wear and tear on the arteries that is a result of aging. Aneurysms usually form at branches or forks found in the arteries. In rare cases, an infection or trauma to the head can also cause an artery can weaken and results in an aneurysm.
15305	Brain aneurysms develop as a consequence of age-related wear and tear on arteries of the brain. In general, most aneurysms form at the forks or branches of arteries because those areas are weaker. In rare cases, a trauma to the head or an infection may weaken the artery wall and cause an aneurysm.
15306	A brain attack is caused by a severe decrease in the amount of blood that supplies the brain. In some cases, an attack may also be caused by too much blood accumulating in the skull.
15307	Cerebral hemorrhage can be a result of a variety of reasons. It can be due to a rupture of an artery in the spinal chord causing a blockage in the nervous system, or a sudden heart attack. People with hypertension as well as those who are obese are more likely to suffer a stroke.
15309	Brain Compression is said to be caused by a lot of conditions such as head injury, wound in the head, cerebral thrombosis, brain infections and cerebral hemorrhage.
15310	It is said to be cause by an infection in the brain infection due to head trauma, medications, carbon monoxide exposure, withdrawal from alcohol, temporal arthritis, lesions and tumors.
15312	While it is possible that heredity, environmental factors, and viruses play a role in the development of primary brain tumors; however the exact cause is still unknown. Cancer originating from other parts of the body that has spread to reach the brain is the primary cause of many secondary brain tumors.
15313	The exact cause of Brainerd Diarrhea is not yet known though it is linked to certain bacteria and parasites including chemical toxins.
15318	The disease is transmitted through the bite of blood-sucking pests that carry the strain Trypanosoma cruzi. It is usually found in tropical countries such as Central America and South America.
15319	The disease is a result of a virus infection transmitted by the female mosquito two species of the Aedes family.
15320	It is clear that breast cancer is caused by malignancy of cells, but what caused healthy cells to be cancerous is not yet clearly defined. Some researches link it to exposure to radiation, genetic component and exposure to cancer-causing elements like polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons found in tobacco and burnt red meats.
15321	Breast engorgement is usually caused insufficient breastfeeding as well as clogged milk ducts.
15322	Breast infection results from a bacteria entering the breast and breaking through or cracking the skin of the nipple, and then penetrating the nipple's milk ducts. The invading bacterium usually comes from a nursing mother's skin surface or from her infant's mouth during breastfeeding. After entering the milk ducts, the organism can multiply and consequently cause an infection.
15323	Although the exact cause of breast pain cannot be pinpointed, several theories exist to explain the discomfort. Cyclic breast pain is attributed to hormonal changes in the body; whereas noncyclic breast pain is believed to result from certain anatomical problems. Another theory hints that breast pain in general may be due to an imbalance of fatty acids in the cells. In addition, some medications such as hormonal treatments have been known to cause breast pain as well.
15326	Ankle bones may break as a result of several factors, including falling from high places, suffering injury in contact sports, suffering exercise injuries, as well as a force from a blow.
15327	A broken arm can be caused by a number of factors, including: falling into an outstretched hand or elbow; direct blows from sports injuries; elbow dislocations; significant trauma such as during a car accident or other direct trauma; child abuse; and osteoporosis.
15328	The exact cause of a broken blood vessel in the eye is currently not understood. However, certain actions may trigger a small blood vessel in the eye to rapture, including: violent coughing, vomiting, powerful sneezing, or heavy lifting. In addition, diabetes and hypertension are believed to be risk factors.
15329	A broken hand may result from fractures in any of the carpal bones, including the metacarpals and phalanges. A hand may be broken through a number of possible scenarios, the most common of which are injuries arising from sports activities, such as in the case of a "boxer's fracture" or a punching injury affecting the metacarpal bone that connects to the little finger. Other common injuries include the "baseball finger" and the "skier's thumb".
15330	Although a broken hip can occur at any age, it more commonly affects people older than 65 years old. As a person ages, his/her bones gradually lose minerals and slowly become less dense. Consequently, the loss of density weakens the bones, making them more prone to hip fractures. Typically, a broken hip arises from a traumatic event, such as falling accidents, sports injuries, or car accidents, among others.
15331	A broken leg results from fracture in any of the major bones of the leg, including the femur or thighbone, tibia or shinbone, and the fibula. Falls, significant trauma, sports injuries, child abuse, and overuse of limbs are some of the common factors that lead to a broken leg.
15332	A broken nose commonly results from trauma to the face. Common contributing scenarios are injuries from contact sports, physical fights, falls, and road accidents. In addition, mild bone fracture may arise from accidental trauma such as walking into a door or running into a fixed structure.
15333	Broken ribs are typically caused by a trauma to the chest. Some factors that can fracture the ribs are: trauma from a fall, vehicular accidents, or impact during contact sports. Milder strains may also cause broken ribs, particularly when the patient has an existing condition that weakens the bones or cause bone density loss such as osteoporosis.
15334	Bronchial asthma can be a congenital complication with the heart, and periodic inflammation of the bronchial tubes. Asthma attacks can be brought about by allergies, reactions to environmental hazards such as polluted air or feline fur or cigarette smoke. Stress can also cause an asthma attack.
15335	Both congenital and acquired causes of bronchiectasis are known. Kartagener syndrome, which affects the mobility of cilia in the lungs, helps in the development of the disease. Another common genetic cause is cystic fibrosis, in which a few patients develop severe localized bronchiectasis. Young's syndrome, which is clinically similar to cystic fibrosis, is thought to significantly contribute to the progression of bronchiectasis. This is because of the occurrence of chronic, sinopulmonary infections. Patients with alpha 1-antitrypsin deficiency have also been found to be particularly susceptible to bronchiectasis, for unknown reasons. Other less-common congenital causes include primary immunodeficiencies, mainly because of the weakened or nonexistent immune system response to severe, recurrent infections that commonly affect the lung.
15336	Certain viruses like respiratory syncytial virus, parainfluenzae virus, flu virus and other infectious agents may enter the respiratory system causing inflammation and swelling to the bronchioles making it difficult for air to flow generously through the lungs. Contamination is often through close contact, sneezing and touching objects contaminated with respiratory secretions.
15338	Bronchitis is often caused by the same virus that causes colds. There are also cases when acute bronchitis can be linked to exposure to cigarette smoke, certain dusts or fumes and chemicals contained in household cleaners.
15341	Bronze diabetes is caused by a defective gene named HFE. This gene is supposed to help regulate the body's iron absorption by rather results to over-absorption of the said mineral. It is an autosomal dominant disorder.
15342	Brown syndrome may already be present at birth. This is caused by inelastic muscle-tendon complex (Wright hypothesis), anomalies of the superior oblique tendon fibers, anomalous inferior orbital adhesions, and posterior orbital bands Brown syndrome that has been acquired during one's lifetime is caused by peritrochlear scarring and adhesions, trauma (superior temporal orbit), chronic sinusitis, blepharoplasty and fat removal, and lichen sclerosus et atrophicus and morphea. Other causes include tendon-trochlear inflammation and edema - Idiopathic inflammatory (pain and click), trochleitis with superior oblique myositis, acute sinusitis, adult rheumatoid arthritis, juvenile rheumatoid arthritis, systemic lupus erythematosus, possibly distant trauma (cardiopulmonary resuscitation [CPR] and long bone fractures), and possibly postpartum hormonal changes. Acquired onset is also the result of superior nasal orbital mass - Glaucoma implant and neoplasm, tight or inelastic superior oblique muscle - Thyroid disease (inelastic muscle), peribulbar anesthesia (inelastic tendon), Hurler-Scheie syndrome (inelastic tendon), and superior oblique tuck (short tendon).
15346	Psychological factors are associated with the development of bruxism such as anger, stress, tension, concealed anger and hyperactive personality. The condition can also be a complication of another disorder including Parkinson's Disease or a side effect of psychiatric medications.
15348	Often, the patient is known to have a tendency towards thrombosis, although Budd-Chiari syndrome can also be the initial symptom of such a tendency. Some examples of genetic tendencies include Protein S deficiency, Protein C deficiency, and the Factor V Leiden mutation. An important non-genetic risk factor is the utilization of estrogen-containing (combined) forms of hormonal contraception. Other risk factors include the antiphospholipid syndrome, dacarbazine, aspergillosis, Behcet's disease, pregnancy, and trauma.
15349	Buerger's disease is a result of the inflammation in the arteries and veins of the arms and legs. Inflammatory cells - and eventually blood clots - form in the vessels and block blood flow in and out of the hands and feet. Reduced blood flow means that the tissue in the hands and feet doesn't get enough oxygen and nutrients needed to sustain it. This results to the signs and symptoms of Buerger's disease, beginning with pain and weakness in the fingers and toes and advancing to other parts of the arms and legs. It is not clear what triggers the inflammation and clots. The cause of the disease is not known but heavily linked to tobacco use. There have also been associations to persons with digestive disorders.
15350	Bulging disks are often caused by aging.
15351	Bulimia is associated to deep psychological issues and feelings of lack of control. Sufferers usually use the destructive eating pattern to feel in control over their lives. They may hide or hoard food and overeat when upset or stressed. They may feel a loss of control during a binge, and consume huge quantities of food (over 20,000 calories). After some length of time, the sufferer of bulimia will find that they no longer have control over their binging and purging. The binging becomes an addiction that seems almost impossible to break. Recovery is very difficult and often in the early stages of recovery the patient will gain weight as they are still binging but no longer purging, causing anxiety which will in turn cause the patient to go back to bulimia. There are higher rates of eating disorders in groups involved in activities that emphasize body type and thinness, such as gymnastics, dance, cheerleading, and figure skating. Bulimia is more frequent among Caucasians. In one study, diagnosis of bulimia was associated with high testosterone and low estrogen levels, and normalizing these levels with combined oral contraceptive pills reduced cravings for fat and sugar.
15352	Bullous pemphigoid is categorized as n autoimmune disorder caused the malfunctioning of the body's immune system. In this medical condition, the body's immune system can overproduces antibodies against the organs, cells and tissue.
15353	Bundle branch block may result from an injury or damage to the heart muscle, blockage of the heart's blood vessels, or from blockage of the heart impulses that make the heart beat. Even short interference that lasts for only a fraction of a second can cause bundle branch block. In some cases, bundle branch block is a congenital condition. In other cases, the blockage is caused by a number of factors, including: myocardial infarction; thickened or weakened heart muscle; hypertension; and scarring of tissues following a heart surgery.
15354	Bunions may be caused by a number of factors, but the most common cause is wearing ill-fitting or extremely tight shoes. In addition, bunions may also form as a consequence of congenital structural defects, foot injuries, constant stress on the foot, and other medical conditions. Some neuromuscular disorders such as post-polio syndrome and cerebral palsy can also cause bunions.
15355	Bunyavirus Infection is said to cause by a a viral infection which are passed by mosquito bites.
15356	There are a number of possible causes of burning mouth syndrome and treatments may vary depending on the type of symptoms displayed by the patient Dry mouth may be triggered by intake of certain medications, some autoimmune disease, physiological factors and nutritional deficiencies as well as irritating dentures. Hormonal imbalance and stomach acid reflux may also be an underlying cause.
15357	Bursitis may be caused by stress, overuse, or direct trauma to a joint, such as prolonged pressure from kneeling or repeated bumping. In some cases, bursitis may develop as a consequence of an underlying arthritis, infection, or gout. In most cases, the exact cause of bursitis cannot be determined.
15358	Bursitis of the hip is caused by a number of reasons. It can be due to preexisting arthritis in the femur, bacterial infections, or small deposits of calcium in the hip bone.
15359	Bursitis of the knee occurs when one or more of the eleven bursae located in the knees become inflamed. It is commonly caused by frequent and sustained pressure on the affected bursa. Other possible causes of knee bursitis include: trauma or severe blow to the knee; direct trauma causing internal bleeding into a bursa; frequent falls on the knee; bacterial infections of the bursa; as well as complications resulting from rheumatoid arthritis, osteoarthritis, or gout.
15360	Unlike other forms of bursitis, this kind is caused by small calcium deposits that solidify in the bones. These deposits tend to perforate the joints causing pain and perforation of cartilage.
15361	Byssinosis is a chronic lung condition that presents an asthma-like narrowing of the airways. This medical disorder is largely due to the inhalation and exposure to unprocessed cotton, hemp and flax dusts.
15362	C syndrome is said to be an autosomal recessive trait that is transmitted genetically.
15363	Clostridium difficile bacteria are practically everywhere and can be found in air, soil, water, feces, and most surfaces. In humans, the infection is triggered by taking antibiotics or other antimicrobial drugs. The organism causes illness by multiplying and growing in abnormally large numbers in the intestinal tract.
15364	The cause of CADASIL is genetic in nature, as studies point out it is the mutations of Notch 3 gene on chromosome 19, which causes this heart disorder. The reason for this is that the Notch 3 gene is responsible for producing the Notch 3 receptor protein, which is crucial for the function, maintenance, and development of the vascular smooth muscle cells. The mutations lead to an abnormal version of the protein, which accumulates in the vascular smooth muscle cells, in turn leading to the muscle cells' degeneration and eventual lack of functioning in the brain and heart's blood vessels.
15365	The primary underlying cause of CAL spots is the significant increase of melanin content that its coupled by the presence of melanosomes in the keratinocytes and melanocytes.
15366	It is said to be cause by vitamin D overdose.
15367	It is said to be caused by buildup of calcium phosphates in the tissue of the body. It is also linked to Rheumatic problems.
15368	Occurring in the setting of normal serum calcium and phosphate levels, the primary abnormality of dystrophic calcification is damaged, inflamed, necrotic or neoplastic skin. Mechanical, chemical, infectious or other insults may damage the tissue. Dystrophic calcification arises in the setting of normal serum calcium and phosphate levels. The main abnormality is damaged, inflamed, neoplastic, or necrotic skin. Tissue damage may occur from mechanical, chemical, infectious, or other insults. Metastaic calcification may arise from the setting of abnormal calcium or phosphate metabolism. It is also generally associated with hyperphosphatemia and/or hypercalcemia. In the absence of known tissue injury or systemic metabolic defect, idiopathic calcinosis may occur. Iatrogenic calcinosis cutis takes place secondary to a treatment or procedure such as repeated heel sticks in the newborn, parenteral administration of calcium or phosphate and prolonged use of calcium-containing electrode paste.
15369	The development of calciphylaxis are associated with certain disorders such as chronic renal failure, hypercalcemia, hyperphosphatemia, elevated calcium-phosphate product, hyperparathyroidism, and vascular calcification. Some speculative associations include aluminum toxicity, coagulation abnormalities, and iron dextran infusion. The cause of calciphylaxis however remains unclear. Though most cases occur in the setting of chronic renal failure, abnormal calcium-phosphate homeostasis, and hyperparathyroidism, the disease may still occur in normal settings or minimally elevated calcium and phosphate levels.
15371	Inheriting the disease is said to be autosomal recessive, which is a mode of inheritance of genetic traits located on the autosomes. Autosomes are pairs of non-sex determining chromosomes in humans.
15372	Campylobacter organisms, characterized by their curved or spiral form, motile, non-spore-forming and gram-negative rods, cause Campylobacteriosis. The C. jejuni bacteria, which are normally found in cattle, swine and birds, commonly cause the disease but can also be caused by C. coli, C. upsaliensis and C. lari. A tissue injury in the gut is one of the causes of the effects of campylobacteriosis. Some C. jejuni strains also produce a cholera-like enterotoxin.
15373	Food contaminated with Campylobacter bacteria during processing or preparation. Handling pets or animals that have diarrhea; since the bacteria leave the body of infected people and animals by means of stool. Unpasteurized milk and cheese made from unpasteurized milk may also contain Campylobacter.
15378	Most people have candida yeasts. Uncontrolled multiplication resulting in disease symptoms however is kept in check by other naturally occurring microorganisms such as bacteria co-existing with the yeasts in the same locations, and by the human immune system. A study among 1009 women in New Zealand revealed that Candida albicans was isolated from the vaginas of 19% women, who were apparently healthy while carriers experienced few or no symptoms. It was also found out that the use of external irritants such as detergents and douches or internal disturbances such hormonal or physiological changes in the body can disturb the normal flora. Other factors such as pregnancy, the use of oral contraceptives, engaging in vaginal sex immediately after anal sex without cleansing, using lubricants with glycerin have been identified to be related to yeast infections. The use of antibiotics among people with Diabetes mellitus is also associated to the prevalence of yeast infections. Among animals, diet has been identified as the cause of said infection. Other disease or conditions linked to candidiasis are HIV/AIDS, mononucleosis, cancer treatments, steroids, stress and nutrient deficiency among others. The use of antibiotic and steroid meanwhile are the most common reasons for yeast overgrowth. The Candida fungus flourishes in warm, moist and dark places. Exposed areas such the mouth, skin folds, armpits and vaginas have said conditions, making them vulnerable. Among males, penile candidiasis may be caused by sexual contact with an infected partner as well as low immunity, antibiotics and diabetes. Males yeast infection however, is less likely to occur and is only a fraction compared to women.
15379	Canine distemper is mainly caused by a virus that attacks wolves, foxes, coyotes and of course, dogs. Years ago, distemper was thought to be a result of contaminated food, neglect, and poorly ventilated kennels. However, studies have shown that is actually spread through a virus that is shed by bodily secretions of the infected animals and is usually caught through inhalation. Dogs often catch distemper through sniffing the excrement of other animals, drinking and eating from an infected dish, and exposure to infected animals.
15380	The main cause of development of canker sores is not yet clearly defined but there are factors that contribute to eruptions in a single individual. Viruses and bacteria attack the healthy cells and may take over due to faulty immune system. Slight injury to the mouth caused by overenthusiastic brushing, dental work or accidentally biting the cheek; allergic reaction to bacteria in the mouth, food allergies, toothpastes with sodium lauryl sulfate content, and other conditions like Celiac disease are factors that aid the development of canker sores.
15381	Its cause being unknown, capillaritis occasionally arises as a reaction to a medication where many different drugs have been occasionally associated with this condition. Food additive or a viral infection may be responsible in others, as well as capillaritis may also develop after exercise.
15382	The disease is usually acquired by miners particularly those who are working in anthracite coal-mines, asbestosis, silicosis and other pneumoconiosis. It might also be acquired genetically and it is said that smoking worsens the condition of the patient.
15384	Carbon monoxide poisoning results when an individual inhales large amounts of carbon monoxide fumes. This odorless, colorless, and tasteless gas is produced by furnaces, heaters, charcoal grills, fireplaces, portable generators, car engines, and other common everyday items. However, the amount of carbon monoxide produced by these sources does not usually reach toxic levels. Poisoning can possibly occur when an appliance malfunction within an enclosed area, causing a buildup of dangerous amounts of carbon monoxide.
15386	The exact cause of carcinoid tumors is currently not known, but these tumors typically develop from cells in the neuroendocrine system. When these neuroendocrine cells undergo changes or mutations that cause them to grow too much, carcinoid tumors result.
15391	Cardiac tamponade commonly occurs when the pericardial space is filled up with fluid considerably faster than the ability of the pericardial sac can stretch. Other underlying causes include hypothyroidism, pericarditis, physical trauma, iatrogenic trauma as well as myocardial rupture.
15392	CFC is said to be a cause of a biochemical relational of mutated genes, particularly those found in BRAF and KRAS, MEK1 and MEK2 genes.
15393	Possible causes of cardiomyopathy include: long-term high blood pressure; heart valve problems; heart tissue; damage from a previous heart attack; chronic rapid heart rate; metabolic disorders, such as thyroid disease or diabetes; nutritional deficiencies of essential vitamins or minerals, such as thiamin (vitamin B-1), selenium, calcium and magnesium; pregnancy; excessive use of alcohol over many years; abuse of cocaine or antidepressant medications, such as tricyclic antidepressants; use of some chemotherapy drugs to treat cancer; and certain viral infections, which may injure the heart and trigger cardiomyopathy.
15395	CNC is primarily an inherited disorder of an autosomal dominant trait. The particular genes responsible for the said disease have been mapped to bands 17q22-24 and 2p16.
15396	Carnitine transporter deficiency is caused by the damaged ability of carnitine transporters to carry carnitine into cells, thus carnitine escapes the body via the urine.
15397	Carnitine-acylcarnitine translocase deficiency is caused by the mutations of a gene called SLC25A20. These mutations lead to creating a faulty version of transporter known as carnitine-acylcarnitine translocase. The shortage of having functional transporters stops the fatty acids of the body from being processed, and being transformed into energy. This leads to characteristic symptoms and signs of the disorder. The condition also has an inheritance pattern known as autosomal recessive.
15398	The disease is likely caused by an in-utero occurrence that arrests the remodeling of the ductal plate found at the bigger intrahepatic bile ducts level. Inadequate ductal plates resorption leads to formation of several primal bile ducts that surrounds the middle portal vein. These dilate, enlarge, and turn into ectatic.
15399	The condition is caused by excessive intake of fruits and vegetables that are rich in carotenoid, particularly green and yellow vegetables. Excessive carotene leads to the skin's yellow discoloration.
15400	The cause of the condition can be generally categorized into two: spontaneous and traumatic. Dissections that occur spontaneously were once uncommon, but have been increasingly recognized as a source of stroke in middle-aged individuals. Traumatic causes are commonly believed to be the result of neck and/or head trauma. The tear in carotid artery lets the blood leak into the walls of the artery.
15401	The causes of the syndrome can be linked to different health conditions and activities including recurring occupational trauma, wrist injuries, acromegaly, rheumatoid arthritis, amyloid neuropathies, pregnancy, and some other conditions.
15402	Carpenter syndrome is inherited in a manner called autosomal recessive, which means that a person has to get two defective gene copies from their parents to develop this syndrome.
15403	Physicians are still determining the disease's exact cause, but many believe that it is due to an infection of a virus called HHV8 or Human Herpes Virus 8. Another probable contributor might be a protein type produced by the immune cells known as IL-6.
15404	The syndrome is said to be caused by the extra chromosome 22 that typically arises spontaneously; however, reports also show that it is hereditary in families.
15405	The germs carried in a cat's saliva when bitten or scratched cause the disease. While one can get the disease through a scratch or bite, one can also catch these bacteria by rubbing their eyes after touching a cat's fur with bacteria.
15406	The exact cause of catatonic schizophrenia or of schizophrenia in general is not known. However, most researchers attribute the condition to problems in early brain development. Meanwhile, other theories point to the following factors: genetics, viral infections, womb malnutrition, and emotional stress or inadequate childhood environments.
15407	CATCH 22 Syndrome is due to genetic deletions or loss of small portion of genetic material of the 22nd chromosome. Since expression pattern of every gene that maps the CATCH 22 area is similar, it is deemed that the area itself behaves like one functional structure; thus any disruption of the genes would be enough to cause the syndrome.
15408	Catel Manzke syndrome generally seems to occur at random, for unidentified sporadic reasons. The proposed cause is microdeletion, probably resultant in a closest gene syndrome; however, this may only be proved through ongoing cytogenetic evaluation of other cases using advanced methods.
15409	The syndrome is caused by abnormal prenatal development of the developing fetus' lower spine. It has also been found to occur more often in children of diabetic mothers compared to non-diabetic ones. Nutritional problems, trauma, genetics, and toxic agents of mothers during pregnancy are among other factors suggested to cause the syndrome.
15410	The condition is caused by a distinctive nerve injury. Several cases of the illness occur after forceful trauma to the leg or arm; others traumas can also lead to the condition, such as heart attacks, surgery, fractures, and infections. It isn't well understood as to why the injuries sometimes set off the condition.
15411	The condition is generally inborn, although they can become visible within some months after birth. It frequently starts at the area that appears somewhat dusky or different in color than its surrounding tissue. Other possible underlying causes for the illness are the conditions citing Cavernous hemangioma as symptom, such as Angioma hereditary neurocutaneous and sacral hemangioms.
15412	Cavernous sinus thrombosis is generally caused by the spread of bacterial infection that has reached the sinus, ears, nose, eyes, or face skin. A possible associated bacterium that causes the infection is Staphylococcus aureus, which is the reason for eyelids edema, eyes conjunctivae, and cranial nerves paralysis that course through cavernous sinus.
15414	The cause for CDG syndrome is not yet fully understood; however, doctors have found that it is associated with the cells' disability to produce a biochemical that plays an important role in the body's transport of protein - a complete chain of glycoproteins.
15415	Celiac disease is triggered when a protein called gluten is ingested. When an individual digests food containing gluten, the small intestine produces an immune reaction that damages the small intestine and reduces the body's ability to absorb certain nutrients from food. Eventually, the resulting malabsorption (decreased absorption) of nutrients can cause serious vitamin deficiencies in vital organs, leading to other diseases.
15416	The body's reaction gliadin, a wheat-based gluten protein, is the cause of celiac sprue. It must be noted that this is not the same as a wheat allergy. During the reaction, transglutaminase, an enzyme tissue, changes the protein, and also causes the immune system to cross-react with the tissue of the bowel, resulting in inflammation. The reaction also constricts the absorption of nutrients in the small intestine, because the inflammation causes the lining to thin out.
15417	Cellulite develops when fat cells accumulate, pushing up and putting pressure against the skin surface, while fibrous connective cords that connect the skin to the underlying muscle are pulling down in the opposite direction. The opposing pressure on skin results in an uneven surface or dimpled texture.
15418	Cenani Lenz syndactylism shows autosomal recessive heredity as one cause. Some malformations of an individual's extremities originate from joint or neurologic diseases; however, there are several exceptions to the rule. Some of these causal diseases include vascular disease, inflammatory disease, neurologic disorders, degenerative diseases, intoxication, congenital disorders, autoimmune diseases, traumatic lesions, and endocrine disorders.
15420	Central diabetes insipidus is generally caused by the body's decreased production of vasopressin, a hormone that aids in the regulation of the body's water. It can also be caused by lack of the hormone, as well as the failure to release this hormone into one's bloodstream by the pituitary gland. Other causes include damage on the hypothalamus during surgery, brain injury, tumor, tuberculosis, aneurysm, and several forms of meningitis.
15421	The main cause of the illness is the fast correction of low sodium levels in the blood.
15422	Central serous chorioretinopathy results from the leaking of choroidal fluid into the subretinal area. The accumulation of fluid is causes by breaks in the retinal pigment epithelium. Although the real cause of central serous chorioretinopathy is unknown, doctors believe that stress plays an important part in the occurrence of the disease. This is because a large number of those afflicted admit to having stressful occurrences on a daily basis, or stressful jobs.
15423	A number of factors may cause central sleep apnea, including heart failure and the presence of underlying neurological conditions such as a stroke or Shy-Drager syndrome. In addition, sleeping at high altitudes may also trigger the condition.
15426	Genetics is said to be the cause behind those with ceramide trihexosidosis. The X-chromosome gene is responsible for the disease, and the mother who has a chromosome is able to pass it on to her child. Her son would have a 50% chance of having the disease, while her daughter would have a 50% chance of being a future carrier.
15428	Cercarial dermatitis is caused by parasites that normally thrive on waterfowl and freshwater snails. These parasites can be released into water through infected eggs and feces. The parasites can burrow into the skin of humans who swim in contaminated water (hence the term "swimmer's itch"). Soon after burrowing, they die and leave an itchy rash. Cercarial dermatitis in humans is never contagious.
15429	Genetics, thyroid problems, or environmental factors can cause cerebellar hypoplasia. Among environmental factors are drugs, viral infections, chemicals, or even strokes.
15430	Cerebellar vermis agenesis is has two subtypes, depending on the cause. Partial agenesis is autosomal dominant, while complete agenesis is autosomal recessive.
15431	Cerebral abscesses are cause by bacterial or fungal infections that have spread in the brain. The infected cells as well as the microorganisms that have thrived in the affected area become enclosed in a membrane resulting to a mass. This mass causes swelling, pressure and destruction of the other brain tissues due to congestion.
15432	The cause for cerebral amyloid angiopathy may be genetic, but it can also occur sporadically. The condition is hereditary, and chromosome 21 is responsible for the amyloid accumulation that results in the disease. Sporadic cerebral amyloid angiopathy, however, is the more common cause, and it is associated with the aging process. Genetic factors related to acquiring cerebral amyloid angiopathy are: Dutch genes with amyloidosis, Flemish hereditary cerebral hemorrhage, familial Alzheimer's disease, and Down syndrome.
15433	Cerebral aneurisms are usually congenital in nature, because the people who have it are often born with the abnormality in the artery wall. A person's health can also bring about the condition, such as when he or she has had previous head trauma, tumors, infections, suffers from high blood pressure, or has atherosclerosis. Cerebral aneurisms are also found to be more common in people who have genetic disease such as polycystic kidney disease, connective tissue disorders, and some circulatory disorders. External factors such as cigarette smoking and drug abuse can also cause a person to have cerebral aneurisms.
15435	Cerebral edema can be caused by other underlying diseases such as coronary problems or liver failure. It can also be due to the excessive production of cranial fluids that circulate in the brain.
15436	A number of causes may result in cerebral gigantism. The most popular is the forceful use of antiseptics when cleaning the umbilical cord. Immunodeficiencies can also cause the disease, such as when leukocyte adhesion defects the affecting chemotaxis, a Sialyl Lewis X antigen deficiency, neonatal alloimmune neutropenia, and defective immune interferon. Also, when the gestational age is below 37 weeks, this may result in cerebral gigantism. Caesarean section births are another possible cause, owing to the delayed separation and bacterial colonization that occurs through delivery. Other possible causes are neonatal sepsis, urachal anomalies, and histiocytosis x. Genetics plays a large role in causing cerebral gigantism. The gene NSD1, responsible in providing instructions for normal growth and development, can mutate. The gene mutation results in cerebral gigantism. Almost all of the cases of cerebral gigantism come from families who have no history of the disease and rather result from a new mutation, although a few record cases have repeat cases. In other words, the condition has an autosomal dominant pattern of inheritance, which means that a single copy of the altered gene is enough to cause the disease.
15437	Cerebral hypoxia can be caused by a number of factors that occur internally or externally, which interferes with the brain's functioning in receiving or processing oxygen. These may include drowning, extremely low blood pressure, drug overdose, cardiac arrest, birth injuries, strangulation or choking, asphyxiation caused by smoke inhalation, compression of trachea, high altitudes, carbon monoxide poisoning, or complications with general anesthesia. Other symptoms may be severe cases of asthma, and some types of anemia. An individual working in a nitrogen heavy environment may also be at risk for cerebral hypoxia.
15438	The exact cause of cerebral palsy is still unknown, although there are known contributing factors. The most common contributing factor is premature birth, because the baby's organs are not fully developed and this puts them at larger risk for brain injury and asphyxia. Other contributing factors are hypoxia of the brain, birth trauma, and asphyxia. Certain conditions in the mother can contribute to her child having cerebral palsy, such as if she has strep infections, trauma, central nervous system infections, consecutive hematoma, multiple birth, and placenta abruptio. Developmental milestones and motor skills are taken into account by the physician when diagnosing a child who is suspected of having cerebral palsy. If a child shows a delay in motor skills, accompanied by physical findings such as abnormal muscle tone, other abnormal behavior in movements and reflexes. By the time a child reaches 18 months of age, it would be easier to diagnose and confirm if they do or do not have the disease.
15439	Cerebral thrombosis, both stroke and TIA, have the same cause wherein a clot obstructs blood supply to portion of the brain. The underlying cause of the blood clot is the buildup of plaques or fatty deposits containing cholesterol in the artery or in one of its branches that supply nutrients and oxygen to the brain.
15441	Cerebrohepatorenal syndrome is an autosomal recessive defect. The mutations lie on the chromosome 2p15 and chromosome 7q21-q22.
15442	CTX is caused by a defective mutation in the CYP27A1 gene, the gene that produces an enzyme that processes cholesterol into bile acids. Because of this defect, the cholesterol that's supposed to be processed by the missing enzyme is absorbed by the tissues and causes damages.
15444	Cerumen impaction commonly occurs when earwax is pushed against the eardrum by hair pins, cotton tips, or other objects typically placed at or near the ears. Alternatively, earwax may abnormally build up when trapped against the eardrum by a hearing aid. Less commonly, cerumen impaction may also be caused by an overproduction of earwax by the glands in the ear canal, or certain anatomical abnormalities such as an abnormally shaped ear canal.
15446	Although the exact cause of cervical dystonia is not understood, the condition is believed to develop as a consequence of excessive or abnormal brain input to muscles; particularly by anomalies in the electrical activity of neurons in the basal ganglia or in the cerebral cortex or both.
15447	The condition usually occurs in relation with an individual's age. Most of the conditions only appear later in life.
15448	Cervicitis is often caused by infection with sexually transmitted diseases such as gonorrhea, chlamydia, and genital herpes. Other possible causes may be an allergic reaction to either contraceptive spermicides or latex in condoms, or overgrowth of bacteria normally appearing in the vagina.
15451	Chalazions are formed when the oil produced by the meibomian gland become too thick to flow out. This oil then blocks the way out due to its growing size, but the gland continues to produce oil. Since the way out is already blocked and has nowhere else to go, the oil builds up and begins to form a lump inside. The gland then breaks open once it can no longer hold the lump from swelling. Once the oil is released into the eyelid's tissue, inflammation is thus caused bringing pain and itchiness to the patient.
15452	This disease is triggered by a bacterial infection after a person makes sexual contact with an infected individual. It is as well aggravated by unhygienic practices and hot, humid weather conditions. The bacteria that causes the infection cannot stand cold climate, thus chancroid is not common in countries such as Europe, Canada and the United States. Chancroid occurs mostly in males, particularly the uncircumcised ones, but females are also prone to acquiring the disease. Upon making contact with an infected person, the bacteria would then invade the open wounds or cuts found in the genital area.
15453	The exact causes of Chandler's Syndrome are unknown, but it can be a result of pre-existing eye syndromes such as the Cogan-Reese Syndrome and the essential iris atrophy.
15454	Chronic Atrial Tachycardia is caused by a variety of reasons, including the following: The heart releases too much electrical signals which cause it to beat. Insufficient amount of blood in the heart Stress and personal struggles Hyperkalemia or Hypokalemia Cardiac Tamponade
15455	One cause of chapped lips is by repeated licking of the lips usually seen in 7-15 year olds and appears as a scaling, pink band around the mouth. High fevers, environmental conditions such as cold weather, dehydration and certain vitamin deficiencies are other possible causes of chapped lips.
15456	Studies have not yet found the exact cause for Charcot's disease. Doctors however link the disease to a number of risk factors such as exposure to heavy metals or neurotoxins, genetic defects, problems with the immune system as well as virus and enzyme abnormalities. Other scientists suspect that Charcot's disease comes from a defect on a person's chromosome 21. Studies have shown that children diagnosed with this genetic defect have higher risks of acquiring Charcot's disease as compared to those who don't.
15457	The Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease is caused by the lack of appropriate proteins which are needed by the nerves to function normally. The absence of this substances lead to dysfunctions in the other parts of the nerve cell such as the axon and myelin. Disrupted myelin production affects the whole behavior of the cell causing mitochondrion clots in the nerve cells, leading to failed synapses establishing the onset of the disease.
15459	The syndrome is an autosomal recessive disease and is passed through generations due to a mutation found in the LYST or CHS1 gene. The main result of this genetic defect is that it forms granules in white blood cells and skin pigment cells. The granules then hamper the production of melanin in the skin making one's skin color pale or pigmented. Also, the granules reduce the strength of white blood cells causing defects in the immune system.
15460	Chomodectoma is a result of an overreaction to changes in the body's homeostasis. It can also be caused by oxygen deprivation in the carotid area. Those who have experienced prolonged hypercpania or hypoxia are susceptible to this disease too, as well as those exposed to high altitudes, but more studies are needed to support this claim.
15461	Chemophobia is caused mainly by hearsays, especially by reports that sensationalize the negative effects of chemical substances used for different purposes. This fear is also aggravated by accidents or events which were caused by the mishandling of chemical products, and through the misinformation spread by the media, the public is led to believe that chemicals are indeed harmful and thus create a fear out of it.
15463	Pregnancy, estrogen therapy, alcoholic liver disease and cirrhosis of the liver are among the causes of cherry hemangioma.
15464	Cherubism is brought about by a defect in the SH3BP2 gene. This gene controls the production of a certain protein that sends chemical signals to the cells that remodel the human bones as well as some cells in the immune system. Mutations that occur in the said gene lead to the overproduction of the said protein, and the abnormal process distorts the signals sent to the cells which in turn result to inflammations in the jaw bones. Once the jaw bones are destroyed, they become replaced by the cyst-like bones that enlarge the jaw area.
15465	Cardiac causes include heart attack, angina, pericarditis, or coronary artery spasm. Non-cardiac causes may include heartburn, pleurisy, costochondritis, pulmonary embolism, sore muscles, esophageal spasms, achalasia, shingles, or problems in the gallbladder or pancreas. Metabolic syndrome and endothelial dysfunction are heart-related conditions that may also cause chest pain. Noncardiac causes include heartburn, panic attack, pleurisy, costochondritis, pulmonary embolism, other lung conditions as well as sore muscles and swallowing disorders.
15466	Chest wall pain oftentimes has no apparent cause. However, some cases may be due to a blow to the chest, infection, or pain signaled from other areas of the body.
15467	A very small or deformed section of the skull that contains the cerebellum causes chiari malformation. This puts pressure on, and crowds the brain interfering with the normal flow of cerebrospinal fluid that protects the brain and spinal cord. Studies show evidence that the condition is hereditary. However, research is still on its early stage.
15468	Chickenpox is caused by one of the eight herpes viruses named the varicella-zoster virus. It used to be a fatal illness that threatened children, but nowadays it can now be cured and prevented through vaccine.
15470	Childhood asthma can be a congenital problem among children; it can also be caused by a previous sickness the child suffered during infancy, as well as allergic reactions to certain substances.
15471	Exact causes of CDD are yet to be known, as well as other factors that can be linked to the said disease. Some conditions have been associated to CDD, such as: lipid storage illnesses which cause toxic buildup of lipids in the nervous system subacute sclerosing panencephalitis: inflammation of the brain and eventual death of nerve cells. Tuberous sclerosis: a genetic disorder that produces tumors which grow in the different vital organs of the body.
15472	Childhood leukemia is a congenital defect as the child is born with low red blood cell count.
15473	Majority of childhood nephrotic syndrome cases has no known direct cause.
15474	The disease is believed to be usually caused by early brain development problems exposure of the fetus to certain viruses or malnutrition in the womb or a stressful childhood environment in a genetically susceptible child.
15483	Cholesthiasis can spawn out of different factors, such as body chemistry, body mass, gallbladder movement and sometimes diet. People suffering from erythropoietic protoporphyria are more prone to acquire gallstones. Cholesterol gallstones form when the bile has excess cholesterol but lack bile salts. Other factors such as increased oestrogen numbers due to pregnancy or hormonal contraception may raise the cholesterol levels and at the same time slow down gall bladder movement, leading to cholesthiasis. People suffering from cholesthiasis experience back pain, shoulder pain, as well as vomiting and nausea. They usually experience these symptoms after eating a good meal. Other ailments include indigestion, belching, lowgrade fever, clay-colored stool and jaundice.
15486	The cause of the condition is not known. But pregnancy hormones may trigger the condition. Factors that may cause the condition include a personal or family history of the condition, a history of liver damage, or twin pregnancy. Women who had the condition in a previous pregnancy have the highest risk of having the condition again.
15490	Chondrocalcinisis is cause by the accumulation of adenosine triphosphate in the joints, wherein it crystallizes and causes ruptures in the joint tissues. Because of this, the joints tend to swell.
15491	One of the causes of CNH is it appears to be pressure between the head the pillow at night occurring in people who sleep predominantly on one side. It can be precipitated by minor trauma such as exposure to cold or a tight headgear or a telephone headset.
15492	Chondrodystrophy is an autosomal recessive outcome of genes, thus parents should undergo genetic testing to avoid acquiring this disorder. Those affected by chondrodystrophy may as well suffer from other problems such as hormonal and metabolic defects, and should be monitored and regulated by hormonal medications. There are two types of skeletal dysplasia: Type 1 consists of a long trunk and short limbs, and Type 2 is made up of a short trunk and normal-sized extremeties.
15493	This genetic condition is an autosomal recessive disorder. It is brought about by founder effects in an isolated human community, like some small island inhabitants. This is a very rare condition, yet it occurs more in founder-effect communities because of insufficient genetic variability. The syndrome spawns from a mutation in two genes, the EVC gene, and the nonhomologous EVC2, which is located near the EVC gene.
15495	There is no specific cause of chondromalacia. It may be because the kneecap has been overused, injured resulting to malalignment, bursitis, core instability or neuromas. It can also occur not only in the kneecap but in other bones as well, like the ankle.
15496	The condition in adolescents and young adults is usually caused by overuse or injury. An unusual alignment of the kneecap may sometimes be responsible. Older adults suffering from chondromalacia patella may relate their condition to knee joint arthritis that causes the loss of normal shock-absorbing ability of the cartilage. A person's weak thigh muscles or flat feet may also contribute to the pain.
15499	The disease may be a result of other related illnesses and conditions, such as: Huntington's disease Rheumatic fever resulting to Sydenham's chorea A side effect of levodopa, anticonvulsants and antipsychotics Metabolic problems and endocrine issues
15503	Classic Hemophilia occurs due to a substance created by the genetic mutation called anti-hemophilic globulin. An offspring of a female carrier and a male hemophiliac also produces another hemophiliac, but with different blood-clotting characteristics, thus the name Hemophilia B, or Christmas disease.
15506	Chromosomal translocation is caused by distorted genetic development that has evolved over time. It can also be a result of poor genetic variations.
15509	The syndrome is a result of genetic deletions on the long arm of chromosome 22. Other patients meanwhile showing similar features may have deletions this time on the short arm of the 10th chromosome.
15510	The condition is caused by a damaged cortex resulting in the insufficient production of hormones.
15512	The cause of a chronic cough is not always clear. However, majority of diagnosed chronic cough were due to postnasal drip, asthma, and acid reflux. Sometimes infections or medications also cause the condition. Chronic coughing in all ages are usually cause by environmental pollutants such as diesel exhaust, ozone, and nitrogen dioxide.
15513	Causes of the condition are not well understood. Various underlying diseases or conditions may cause chronic daily headaches. Such underlying cause may include meningitis, pinched nerves in the neck, brain tumor, or traumatic brain injury. However, the condition usually does no have an underlying physical cause.
15514	Exercise or repetitive muscle contraction cause an abnormal level of high tissue pressure within a compartment resulting to chronic exertional compartment syndrome. Enlarged muscles, an especially thick or inelastic fascia, or high pressure within the veins may also other cause the condition. Overusing or overtraining muscles are risks of developing chronic exertional compartment syndrome.
15515	CFS is brought about by a variety of reasons. It can be a result of pre-existing diseases and medical conditions. Among the most common conditions to which CFS is linked are mylagic encephalomyelitis, neurasthenia, multiple chemical sensitivities, chronic mononucleosis and fibromyalgia syndrome. Other conditions to which chronic fatigue syndrome arises are hypthyroidism, narcolepsy, depression, bipolar disorders, schizophrenia, cancer, autoimmune diseases, hormonal defects, alcohol or drug abuse, and reactions to some medications.
15517	Chronic hiccups are caused due to different reasons. One of this is that there is pressure in the phrenic nerve causing the diaphragm to produce spasms. The lack of electrolytes and certain vitamins is also a probable cause of chronic hiccups. Finally, chronic hiccups are a symptom of some cancers or a side effect of chemotherapy treatment.
15518	Chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyneuropathy is believed to caused by the immune cells incorrectly attacking the body's nerves instead of fighting foreign infection. Because of this the nerves are unable to respond to stimuli causing pain, progressive muscle weakness, fatigue and numbness all throughout the body.
15519	Chronic illnesses in a period of years result to progressive kidney damage. Common causes of chronic kidney failure may include diabetes, high blood pressure, obstructive nephropathy, kidney diseases, kidney artery stenosis, overexposure to toxins and some medications.
15521	The condition occurs when the body's immune system creates antibodies that damage the thyroid gland. It results to an inflammation of the thyroid gland impairing the thyroid's ability to produce hormones, which leads to an underactive thyroid gland. Factors such as heredity, sex and age, contribute to the development of the disorder.
15523	The condition emerges from a multifaceted mutation process that involves genes and chromosomes in the blood cells. The process involves Philadelphia chromosome and irregular white blood cells.
15524	The exact cause of the illness isn't understood, and it appears to develop from combined environmental and genetic factors.
15525	Chronic necrotizing vasculitis can come about in rheumatoid arthritis, and usually noticed with sclerroderma, polyarteritis nodosa, and systematic lupus erythematosus. The inflammation's cause is not known, but is possibly connected to some autoimmune factors.
15526	Chronic neutropenia may arise if the neutrophils are destroyed or exhausted in one's bloodstream quicker than its production by the bone marrow. The disorder may also develop when the bone marrow's neutrophils re reduced, like in people with viral infections, cancer, and bacterial infections.
15527	The major cause of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease is smoking, even if only approximately fifteen percent of smokers get the disease. There is also a possibility of heredity cause.
15528	The condition may be cause by gynecologic problems or some other diseases such as irritable bowel syndrome and interstitial cystitis. Psychological factors may contribute to the pain.
15530	The exact cause of the condition is not known. The main implications for probable causes include autoimmune reaction, infectious disease, or immune system defect.
15531	Some major causes of chronic renal failure are high blood pressure and diabetes. Other causes include disorders that permanently damage nephrons, such as Polycystic Kidney Disease, Interstitial Nephritis, and Glomerulonephritis.
15532	Infection of the upper respiratory tract can cause chronic sinusitis. But there are also noninfectious triggers. Other causes are allergies, anatomical problems such as a deviated nasal septum, and mold or fungi.
15533	The disorder is caused by not just one source. A number of people seem to have changes in their nervous system that produces organic tremor in vocal cords. Others can have dystonia, which is another form of neurologic condition that produces anomalous muscle tone. In some rare cases, chronic or acute life stress causes the disorder.
15534	The causes of the condition are not known. But certain factors contribute to the pain such as injury to or irritation of the nerves surrounding the vulvar region, past vaginal infections, allergies or a localized hypersensitivity of the skin, muscle spasms, or changing estrogen levels occurring during menopause. The condition is not sexually transmitted or a sign of cancer. Most patients have previously been treated for recurrent vaginitis or vaginal yeast infections. Others have been sexually abuse.
15535	The syndrome's cause isn't known. While the syndrome is said to be linked to some asthma medications, known as leukotriene modifiers, it's not clear if whether they're actually the cause of the disorder or whether patients who take them have much severe asthma that tends to develop the syndrome.
15536	There have been multiple causes describe for the condition including spontaneous bacterial peritonitis, abdominal surgery, pelvic irradiation, malignant neoplasms, blunt abdominal trauma, abdominal tuberculosis, carcinoid syndrome, and congenital defects of the lacteal formation.
15537	Like any other autoimmune disease, environmental factors mixed with genetic vulnerability lead to the growth of autoantibodies that can cause cicatricial pemphigoid.
15538	The poisoning is caused by intake of ciguatoxin through contaminated fish.
15539	The main cause is quinine overdose.
15540	Cirrhosis is a result of other severe complications in the liver. The liver becomes impaired and blood clots block the way for nutrients and normal functions to pass through, making it weak and tender. Diseases such as hepatitis contribute to cirrhosis.
15541	Citrullinemia is inherited in a pattern called autosomal recessive. This means that both copy gene copies in every cell contain mutations.
15542	Gonorrhea is caused by the Neisseira gonorrhoeae bacteria, and it can be contracted by having sexual contact with an infected person.
15544	Claudication is a pain in the leg muscles that may also occur in the arteries of the arms. The condition is a symptom of peripheral arterial disease in which the arteries supplying blood to the limbs are damaged. An individual with a family history of atherosclerosis, peripheral artery disease, or claudication is at risk of developing claudification. Other factors also include smoking, high blood pressure, obesity, diabetes, and age over 50 years old.
15545	The condition is likely caused by environmental and genetic factors. If an individual was born with cleft lip, his or her children have increased risk of being born with the disorder. There is also higher risk of cleft lip if a pregnant mother uses some medicines, take illegal drugs, exposed to infections or radiation, drinks alcohol, and smokes.
15547	Cleidocranial dysplasia is caused by mutations in a gene called RUNX2. This gene provides the instructions for producing protein that's responsible for cartilage and bone development; when there's a mutation, the quantity of useful RUNX2 protein is decreased causing symptoms of the disorder.
15548	People with the condition have abnormal mitral valve leaflets keeping the valve from closing normally, which may be inherited. People at risk of developing the condition are those with Marfan syndrome and connective tissue disorders.
15549	There is no specific known cause of depression. Specialists think that factors such as biochemical, genetic, and environmental may cause depression. Factors that may risk developing or triggering the condition may include having other biological relatives with depression, stressful life events, low self-esteem and being overly dependent, self-critical or pessimistic, substance abuse, or recent child birth.
15551	The disease is caused by a bacterium named Clostridium difficile. C. difficile thrives in closed communities such as hospitals and can be transmitted through the fingernails, toenails, and tools that were not sterilized. In some cases, the disease is a result of an antibiotic treatment, making it hard to cure.
15552	There are various causes for clubfoot. The most common is the Edward's syndrome, which is a genetic defect, but also the use of MDMA or Ecstasy while pregnant has contributed to the disease.
15553	Studies point to various methods to explain major causes, and is believed to be likely a genetic component. Different factors may work jointly to produce the disorder.
15554	CMV antenatal infection occurs when a mother becomes infected with the virus during pregnancy. The virus travels across the fetus' placenta, which causes congenital infection of the fetus.
15555	The main cause is inhalation of dust from graphite, man-made carbon, or coal over a long period of time.
15556	The cause of coats disease is not identified at present. However, it is described as a sign of facioscapulohumeral dystrophy.
15557	The infection is from inhaling arthroconidia.
15558	The infection is mainly caused by the inhalation of the fungus spores called coccidioides immitis.
15559	The syndrome is caused by two defective genes, CSA and CSB, which are inherited in an autosomal manner. Both genes cipher proteins that act together with transcriptional machinery components and proteins of DNA repair.
15560	The root cause of the sickness is the immediate exposure to gliadin, a protein found in wheat products. This protein causes malabsorption issues in the cells, making it difficult for them to process the nutrients needed by the body organs.
15561	Coffin-Lowry syndrome is caused by gene mutations of the Ribosomal Protein S6 Kinase. The gene is situated on the X chromosome's short arm, and this produces the protein involved in signaling cells and plays a major role in central nervous system. The mutation disturbs the protein's function leading to the syndrome.
15562	The underlying cause of the syndrome is not known. In the majority of cases, the condition is believed to be the result of new genetic changes or mutations appearing randomly with unknown reasons. Autosomal recessive heredity is also said to be a factor.
15563	The cause of the disease is unknown, but one theory says it's an 'autoimmune disorder' wherein the immune system of the body mistakenly attacks ear and eye tissue.
15564	The cause is theorized to be gene mutation of the COH1 at locus 8q22. This mutation alters the functional characteristic of the gene, leading to the symptoms of the syndrome.
15565	The cause of cold agglutinin disease is unknown or idiopathic.
15566	Most causes of hives are idiopathic. However, there are some rare diseases that lead to cold hives, and it is helpful to test these conditions for exact causes.
15567	The disease is caused by an infection brought about by the herpes virus.
15568	It is spread amongst birds that carry the strain O86. Individuals affected by the bacterial infection usually shows signs of weakness and lethargy. E. coli infection can bring about problems in the digestive system. The disease can be acquired through exposure to the waste of infected birds and fowl as well as by disposing carcasses, thus proper hygiene must be practiced to avoid the disease.
15569	There is still no clear cause what really causes colic. Opinions about the possible causes are plenty such as wrong feeding techniques, allergies, mother's anxiety, immature digestive system and even swallowing of air during feedings.
15570	Various processes of diseases like chronic and acute infections are among of some causes of colitis. The lack of blood flow contributes to the incidence of the disease.
15571	The cause of this condition hasn't been identified. A number of researchers theorize that bacteria and their produced toxins trigger the inflammation linked to the condition.
15572	The lung collapses when air enters the pleural space between the rib cage and lung exerts pressure that causes all or part of the affected lung to collapse.
15573	The cause of the disorder is said to be an abnormality in Chromosome 22. This abnormality alters the proper functioning of the gene, resulting to developmental deformities.
15574	As with all other cancers, an alteration occurring in healthy cells is the cause of colon cancer. There are several factors that increase the risk of developing colon cancer including high fat intake, family history of colon cancer, presence of polyps in the large intestine, chronic ulcerative colitis; which is a medical condition itself.
15575	Genes that re responsible in the growing and dividing of healthy cells mutate it continues dividing even if new cells are not needed.
15576	Polyps result from abnormal cell growth.
15577	The condition is usually due to disrupted blood flow to the colon that interferes with normal functions. The condition may sometimes be caused by other medical conditions including inflammation of the blood vessels, easy blood clotting, radiation treatment to the abdomen, thrombosis in the arteries and veins, or abdominal surgery.
15578	This medical condition is largely caused by a recessive genetic characteristic, and usually affects both eyes. For acquired color blindness may be due to the normal aging process, the side effects of some medication and the presence of other eye problems such as macular degeneration, glaucoma, cataract as well as diabetic retinopathy. Eye injuries can also be an underlying cause in some cases.
15579	The organism that transmits this virus is identified as an infected tick that is usually found in the rocky mountain regions in the United States,. This disease is usually more prevalent during the month of February through October. Laboratory exposure to the said virus may also be an underlying cause of CTF.
15580	Generally, cancer is caused by the mutation of healthy cells. However, its exact is unknown.
15581	A person may be in a coma due to any of a variety of problems such as rraumatic brain injuries, stroke, diabetes, lack of oxygen, infections, or toxins, which may also cause brain damage leading to coma.
15582	This type of disease is identified as the most common type of disorder that can be associated with increased presence of fat in the blood and early heart attacks. This is purely genetic is nature. Other conditions such as alcoholism, hypothyroidism and diabetes may trigger to disease to worsen.
15583	There are 200 types of viruses that are said to cause the common cold. Rhinovirus is the common culprit and can be highly contagious.
15584	The causes of the common variable immunodeficiency are linked to genetic factors as well as the prolonged use of antiepileptic drugs.
15585	CAP is caused by a variety of viruses and microorganisms that are present in the community. This is a common breakout disease among communities with poor sanitation practices.
15586	The common causes of this medical condition includes tibial or forearm fractures, hemorrhages, intravenous drug injection, burns, vascular punctures and prolonged limb compression. This condition does not usually require an emergency. However, the loss of circulation may permanently or temporarily damage the muscles and nerves.
15587	The underlying cause for complex regional pain syndromes is typically associated with reflex sympathetic dystrophy syndrome, which typically develops after an injury or illness. Other known cause is after and nerve a injury.
15588	The cause of complicated grief is not known but may involve the interaction between an individual's genes, environment, body's natural chemical makeup and personality.
15589	The cause for driving people into compulsive gambling is not known. However, it is believed that problems with the brain's naturally occurring chemicals such as neurotransmitters, serotonin, norepinephrine, and dopamine may be the factors. Problems with these chemicals may drive an individual to compulsive gambling.
15590	The cause of the condition is unclear but it is believed to that genetics and upbringing may have a part in triggering it.
15591	The cause of the disorder is not specifically known because it may be triggered by a variety of factors such as biological vulnerability, psychological and emotional characteristics, and sociocultural.
15592	The behavior has no known cause but research on possible causes such as brain abnormalities, natural brain chemicals, androgens, and changes in the brain's circuitry are underway.
15593	The cause of CSP is most likely a combination of genetic and environmental factors; although it is still not known what really causes compulsive skin picking. Doctors believe that faulty brain pattern in reaction to stress and anxiety triggers is an explanation why CSP occurs.
15594	The cause of the disorder is unknown. Some research suggests that problems with the brain's naturally occurring chemical called serotonin may contribute to the development of the disorder. Some also suggests that it may be related to other addictive disorders or to obsessive-compulsive disorder.
15595	A concussion is usually caused by a blow to the head, which causes the brain to slide forcefully against the skull's inner wall.
15596	Genetic and environmental elements in addition to other factors contribute to the development of the disorder. Some causes are also rooted to be associated with past history of being rejected by either peers or family.
15597	Among the most common identified causes for this type of hearing impairment include wax buildup, a ruptured eardrum, infection of the middle ear and damage to the middle ear bones.
15598	Condyloma is generally a sexually transmitted disease, which means it spreads through sexual intercourse with an infected partner. This is known to be highly contagious can may only appear three month after the contact.
15599	Condyloma acuminatum and genital infection is mainly caused by the HPV virus that would result in the local infections that usually appears as warty papillary lesions. This medical condition is caused by sexual contact with an infected partner.
15600	There are a number of medical causes that is associated to this medical condition including hypertension, glaucoma, diabetic retinopathy, papilledema, cholesterol emboli, macular degeneration, pigmented crescent, retinal detachment, optic atrophy, retinal hemorrhage, lipemia retinalis, chorioretinal exudates and angioid streaks
15601	Congenital adrenal hyperplasia is caused by an inherited genetic defect that is a result of a significantly decreased formation of a particular enzyme called 21-hydroxylase. This will result to a reduction of the hormonal production by the adrenal glands. The severity and degree of the disease is largely influenced by the level of enzyme deficiency. s
15602	This rare disorder is primarily caused by an atypical gene that has been passed on to the child from both parents. This will result to either oa defect in the proper function of available fibrinogen, or lack of fibrinogen in the body. This condition is known to occur in both sexes and primary candidates and people from a family with a history of bleeding.
15603	This disease is a result of a genetic mutation of the cells' mitochondria.
15604	The exact causes of congenital amputations are still unknown. However, majority of the birth defects have underlying genetic factors that usually occur during the first trimester of the pregnancy. Exposure to some teratogens or agents that can cause birth defects may also cause congenital amputation. Another cause is the amniotic band syndrome that can constrict the natural development of the fetus.
15605	There are actually two different types of ATIII Deficiency that may be largely due to a number of varying genetic defects that can be directly with associated with conflicting levels of enzymatic activity, enzyme production and chemical stability.
15607	CAM is known to be a result arising from a focal arrest in the development of the fetal just before the 7th week of gestation period of the mother. However, the pulmonary development with the marked distortion may be present even at the embryonic development.
15608	Autosomal dominant deafness can be easily passed one from one generation to another. These are categorized as the missense mutation in then COL11A2 performs the encoding of the XI type collagen. Other causes include ear wax, usher syndrome, toxoplasmosis and otitis media.
15609	Congenital diaphragmatic hernia typically occurs during the lung development stage called pseudoglandular. This is often associated to a number of bronchial generations such as alveoli and several arterial generations. This condition is believed to be a cause of the mutation of gene and chromosome abnormalities. Just recently, medical studies have shown the deletion of the 8p,1q and 15q are directly related to congenital diaphragmatic hernia.
15610	This is a congenital condition that is brought about by the mutation or abnormalities in the genes.
15611	The underlying cause of congenital facial diplegia is the autosomal dominant inheritance that comes with the variable expression as well as the incomplete penetration. There are several patient with this rare condition that have been known to have hypogonadism. Other pathogenesis include nuclear destruction, primary myopathy and the peripheral nerve abnormality.
15612	In about 8 out of 10 cases of congenital heart disoder, the cause is unknown. However, among the usual factors include other birth defects, genetics, and possible infection during pregnancy, medications and alcohol as well as poor maternal health.
15613	The underlying cause of congenital heart defects is still largely unknown and is said to be of multifactoral origin, which includes environmental and genetic factors. Chromosomal abnormalities including point deletions and mutations may also be one of the causes. Environmental factors would normally include maternal illness, alcohol intake during pregnancy, infections and use of drugs that may cause birth defects.
15614	Congenital hepatic fibrosis is categorized as an autosomal recessive disorder with no known causative agent or definite cause identified.
15615	Herpes simplex virus can be transferred through close contact and can be transferred to the fetus resulting to congenital HSV infection. Newborns may also easily acquire this infection through direct exposure to the infected secretions of the mother's genitalia.
15616	Familial tendency are noted in many clinical studies regarding congenital hip dysplasia.
15617	Congenital hypothyroidism is primarily caused by the child's iodine deficiency, as well as the dysgenesis of the patient's thyroid gland, abnormalities in the TSH receptor, deiodinase defects, and pendred syndrome.
15618	The primary cause of congenital ichthyosis can be traced by gene mutations as well as other chromosomal abnormalities.
15619	CIPA is primarily caused by genetic mutations, which can prevent the development of nerve cells which are mainly responsible for transmission of pain, cold and heat signals to the brain.
15620	Congenital megacolon is usually diagnosed among new born. It is still largely unknown why the colon nerves stop developing during fetal growth in the womb. This medical condition may also arise along with other complex diseases such as other rare disorders and Down 's syndrome.
15621	The occurrence of congenital mesoblastic nephroma tumors is directly caused by gene mutations as well as association with pediatric cancer called fibrosarcoma. This is a common gene mutation that is categorized as sarcoma-based.
15622	Congenital microvillus atrophy is categorized as an autosomal recessive disease. However the pathogenesis of this medical condition still remains unclear. Most infants have clinical findings that suggest dihydropyrimidinase deficiency.
15623	Congenital myopathy is identified as an inherited genetic disease, in which the nuclei are abnormally found in the very center of the muscle fibers. The most severe form of this medical condition is typically diagnosed at birth and inherited as an x-linked trait that also causes respiratory muscle weakness.
15624	The congenital nephrotic syndrome has a number of underlying causes. This medical condition can be a result of a utero-infection such as toxoplasmosis, cytomegalovirus, syphilis or as a result of a genetic disease. It is usually an autosomal recessive disorder, which means both parents have to be carriers to transmit the disease to the fetus.
15625	This medical condition is caused of the rubella virus that invades the patient's upper respiratory tract along with other sites such as the placenta. This effect would include endothelial damage of the fetus' blood vessels.
15626	The disease is caused by an organism called Treponema Pallidum passed on from pregnant woman to child at the time of fetal development or during birth.
15627	The disease is caused by a parasite known as Toxoplasma Gondi. A fetus may be infected if the mother has the disease, or if there is history of the disease in her previous pregnancies.
15628	Congestive heart disease often develops after some other conditions have weakened or damaged the heart. Eventually, the heart may no longer be able to sustain the normal demands required of it. Some conditions may cause congestive heart disease, such as hypertension, cardiomyopathy, and other diseases.
15629	Conjoined twins result when a single fertilized egg fails to split during the first two weeks after conception. The fertilized egg's degree and time of splitting determines the type of the conjoined twins. The cause of the delayed splitting is unknown.
15630	Bacteria, virus, fungi, chlamydia, allergies, and irritants cause Conjunctivitis. Tears aid in protecting the conjunctiva through cleansing away bacteria; it also contains antibodies and enzymes that exterminate bacteria.
15631	Adrenal glands' tumors are the major cause of Conn's syndrome.
15632	Incoordination of the muscles used during bowel movement, which is a condition called pelvic floor dysfunction causes an individual to strain during bowel movements and result to stool hanging only in the rectum is one of the possible cause of constipation. Other factors that contribute to constipation include low-fiber diet and inadequate intake of fluid, lack of physical activity, certain medications and other medical conditions such as hormonal disturbances and autoimmune disorders.
15633	Constipation in children is caused by poor diet, mainly by low water intake as well as insufficient fibers that help digest solid food. When not treated, the condition can lead to hemorrhoids.
15634	The cause of the condition is thought to be the result of inherited genes coming from both the parents.
15635	Contact dermatitis results when the skin comes in contact with irritants or allergens such as strong detergents or soaps, skin cleaning products, cosmetics or makeup, deodorant, clothing or shoes, household cleaning products, formaldehyde and other chemicals, rubber or latex, metals, jewelry, and perfume or fragrances. Weeds and plants, such as poison ivy or poison oak as well as medicinal lotions, such as antihistamines, antibiotics or antiseptics may also cause contact dermatitis.
15636	There are a great number of different contact lens solutions available in the market today. Solutions that may cause toxicity include multipurpose solutions, rewetting solutions, artificial tear products, disinfecting and rinsing solutions.
15638	The cause of this condition isn't known, but researchers are studying anomalies of brain circuitry, particularly the ones that govern sensory and motor skills, as the possible explanation.
15639	The disorder is caused by one of the chains of globins that compose hemoglobin. Reduced synthesis of this globin chain results to the formation of irregular hemoglobin molecules, which in turn leads to the anemia presenting the disorder's symptoms.
15640	The disease is a result of a defective gene that's responsible for regulating copper metabolism in the body. This gene is said to be Xq13.3, wherein the mutations result in decreased copper production.
15641	The condition is inherited. A few types of this disease root from defective genes inherited from parents. Defects in the gene cause enzymes involved in the conversion of porphyrin into heme to become abnormal.
15642	The disorder is due to a strain on the heart's right ventricle, rooting from prolonged pulmonary hypertension. When the right ventricle is unable to or fails to correctly pump against the abnormal high pressures, Cor pulmonale results. Some of these underlying causes include cystic fibrosis, primary pulmonary hypertension, obstructive sleep apnea, interstitial lung disorder, pneuomoconiosis, pulmonary vascular disorder, mountain sickness, and kyphoscoliosis.
15643	There are a number of possible causes of corneal abrasion such as injury to the eye, and abrasive particles have entered the eyes. Excessive rubbing of the eyes can also cause abrasion and can irritate the eyes. Wearing contact lenses longer than the recommended duration can injure the surface of the eye as well as exposure to ultraviolet lights.
15644	Depending on the type of corneal dystrophy, causes can include heredity, cornel abrasion, and corneal ulcers. Corneal abrasion typically roots from a foreign body embedded under one's eyelid, or even fingernail scratch; the epithelium does not at all times heal properly, and recurrent erosion of the cornea can develop into corneal dystrophy. Corneal ulcers are generally the result of bacteria, fungal, viral, or protozoan infections.
15645	The problem is primarily caused when the base layer of epithelial cells stay poorly to the cornea, and causes them to be sloughed off easily. This pain and discomfort are often intense, and share similar symptoms with a corneal abrasion. More often than not, there is an underlying medical disorder that causes the recurrent corneal erosion.
15646	The lodging of the foreign body can easily occur from anywhere. Known causes of this medical condition include accidental trauma, small pieces of wood, sand or other equally small foreign body and injury caused by use of power tools.
15647	The syndrome is caused by the mutations in genes. These genes include SMC3, SMCIA, and NIPBL. The changes disrupt function of the genes involved in regular development, resulting to varied symptoms and signs of the syndrome.
15648	The primary cause of corn is mainly due to the great friction or pressure on the toes. This usually happens when wearing tight-fitting shoes or high heels. As the skin acts as the body's natural armor, the corns are actually the body's attempt to protect the skin.
15649	Coronary artery disease is caused by various factors which cause the inner layer of a coronary artery to be damaged or injured. Such factors include smoking, high blood pressure, high cholesterol, certain diseases, such as diabetes, or radiation therapy to the chest, as used for certain types of cancer.
15650	Coronary heart disease is said to begin with injury or damage to the coronary arteries' inner layer. This damage can be caused by different aspects, including smoking, high cholesterol, hypertension, chest radiation therapy, and certain diseases.
15651	Corpus callosum agenesis results from development disruption of the 'fetal brain' during its fifth and sixth week of conception. The cause of this disruption is unknown; however, some studies suggest that a number of possible causes can include inherited genetic defect, chromosome errors, prenatal injuries or infections, prenatal exposure to toxins, and metabolic disorders.
15652	How these neurons become larger than the normal is still unknown to modern science. The source however is believed to be neuronal or glial progenitor cells.
15653	Recent research shows that this condition is caused by cells that contain abnormal form of protein tau. In most cases, it is not genetic.
15654	HRAS gene, which is responsible for making a protein that direct cell growth and division, mutations trigger Costello Syndrome. These mutations produce HRAS protein that is always active, inducing constant cell growth and division. This is what causes the tumors. A copy of the altered gene within the cell is enough for an individual to develop this disease.
15655	The causes of this disease is not known most of the time. Some recognizable causes, however, are listed as injury such as a blow to the chest, infection, and pain from other areas of the body which may trigger the brain to signal pain to other parts of the body.
15656	Costosternal chondrodynia oftentimes has no apparent cause. However, some cases may be due to a blow to the chest, infection, or pain signaled from other areas of the body.
15657	Costosternal syndrome oftentimes has no apparent cause. However, some cases may be due to a blow to the chest, infection, or pain signaled from other areas of the body.
15658	The exact causes for cot death are still unknown, but risk factors include exposure to cigarette smoke, use of illegal drugs during pregnancy, poor prenatal care and mothers who didn't practice breast-feeding. Insufficient oxygen is also suspected to be a cause of SIDS.
15659	The real cause is still unknown though doctors believe that the disease may be caused by extrinsic and intrinsic factors. Though decreased fetal movements due to maternal or fetal abnormalities is thought to be the principal cause, factors such lack of space for movement in the uterus, and malformation of musculoskeletal/neuromuslcular, neurological and connective tissues may also trigger Cote Adamopoulos Pantelakis syndrome. It is not genetic.
15660	Couvade syndrome is a condition with unknown origin.
15661	Most cases of Cowden syndrome (around 80 percent) is caused when the gene that suppresses tumors, PTEN, mutate. As such, PTEN controls the cell development and division. With it mutates, PTEN is unable to direct the survival and the division of the cells. The remaining cases of Cowden syndrome is caused by unknown factors.
15662	The main carriers of cowpox virus are woodland rodents, which then transmit the virus to cats and cows. Humans get sick with cowpox when they come into contact with these infected animals.
15664	The condition occurs when the blood flow to the eyes or brain are impaired due to the swelling of the arteries. However, its specific cause is not known, but researchers think that there are genetic, viral, and environmental factors that play roles in the inflammation.
15665	This disease is acquired genetically.
15666	Currently referred to as Crouzon Syndrome, craniofacial dysostosis involves the bones of the face and skull of infants. According to studies, out of 25,000 people, only 1 suffers from craniofacial dysostosis. Understandably, those families who have history of craniofacial dysostosis have greater chances of passing on the gene.
15668	Primary craniostenosis points to the primary defect of the cranial bones' mesenchymal layer. The secondary type has been found out to be caused by primary failure of the brain to grow and develop.
15669	Craniosynostosis is known to be caused by primary defect in the mesenchymal layer ossification in the cranial bones and primary failure of brain growth. Some cases are associated with 150 syndromes, including Crouzon syndrome and Apert syndrome.
15670	The immune system signals fibroblasts to overproduce collagen, the most abundant protein in our body and the main component of ligaments and tendons. Genetics, hormones and environmental factors also play a role in the development of the disease.
15671	Cretinism results from a diet deficient in iodine. Iodine is recognized as an essential trace element that is highly necessary primarily to perform the synthesis of thyroid hormones. Although iodine is found in many foods, it is not universally present in all soils in adequate amounts, making iodine deficiency a problem worldwide. The soils of majprity of the inland areas on most continents are typically iodine deficient, resulting to plants and animals grown in the area to be correspondingly deficient.
15672	The gene mutations of prion protein is the mechanism that causes the dominant alpha helical regions to misfold and turn to beta pleated sheets, disabling the protein's ability for digestion. Infected prion are believed to come from human growth hormone products, electrode implants and, corneal and dural grafts. It may be inherited or transmitted by consuming meat affected with the disease's bovine form.
15673	The deletion of a portion in band 5p15.2, the Cri du chat critical region, is associated with all the features of the disease excluding the catlike cry. This is correlated to band 5p15.3. In most cases (80 percent), Cri du chat is caused by sporadic de novo deletion, while the remaining numbers is believed to arise from the uneven segregation of the parental balanced translocation.
15674	The cause of the condition is unknown. However, some factors such as smoking during or after pregnancy, the baby is lying on his or her stomach on soft pillows or bedding while sleeping, may possibly cause crib death.
15675	CNS is caused by possible defects on copies of a gene that produces the liver enzyme glucuronyl transferase essential for the normal method of removing bilirubin from the blood. The normal method of taking out bilirubin will fail if both both copies are defective, causing the blood bilirubin levels to increase at rates related to the level of active enzyme present. It may also be genetic.
15676	CCHF virus is the cause of CCHF which is a Nairovirus that is a group of associated viruses that forms one of the five genera in the Bunyaviridae family of viruses.
15677	There is no known cause of Crohn's disease, however, research has found that it is linked to genetic and environmental factors. Individuals who have siblings afflicted with the disease are 30 times more likely to acquire the disorder.
15678	Research has not shed some light into what causes this syndrome. What is known is that Cronkhite-Canada is not hereditary and that it largely affects Japanese more than any race. Two-thirds of reported cases came from the country, with male to female patient ratio at 2:1.
15679	Croup can be caused by viruses, most commonly the parainfluenza virus, bacteria and allergic reaction. The inflammation which results from the infection causes the respiratory problems mainly among children because they have smaller airways.
15680	Crouzon syndrome results from disturbances in the development of branchial arches, maxilla and mandible. It affects one in every 25,000 persons. It is not hereditary.
15681	The root of Crouzonodermoskeletal syndrome are the mutations in FGFR3, the gene responsible for the production of a protein involved in developing and maintaining the tissues of our bones as well as our brain's. The mutation is believed to interrupt growth of the bones and alter skin pigmentation.
15682	There is no known cause of Crow-Fukase syndrome, though it is believed that paraprotein as well as the vascular endothelial growth factor maybe responsible for the development of the disease.
15683	It is not known how an individual acquires cryoglobulinemia, but this non-genetic disorder is linked to certain diseases and the hepatitis C virus.
15684	The fungus called Cryptococcus neoformans causes cryptococcosis .
15685	The exact cause of the condition is unknown but anything affecting the descending process may cause it. Hormonal abnormalities during gestation or an abnormally developed testis may possibly cause the condition. If one or both testicles are completely absent, the blood supply to the gonads may have been twisted during gestation.
15686	Drinking water, swimming in the water, and eating uncooked food contaminated with cryptosporidium are some of the common methods for ingesting cells of the cryptosporidium parasite. Close contact with infected people and animals especially their stool can transmit parasite from your hands to your mouth.
15687	Cryptosporidium infection is caused by the ingestion of the cells of any type of cryptosporidium parasite. The majority of human infections are caused by the Cryptosporidium parvum (C. parvum) species. The disease is spread through contact with surfaces touched by an infected human or animal feces.
15688	Cubital tunnel syndrome is a result of another muscular problem called repetitive stress injury. Injuries or trauma in the ulnar area cause the nerves to contract due to compression and signal pain to the brain.
15689	Currarino's triad is determined as a hereditary condition characterized as an autosomal recessive disorder, which basically means both parents are known carriers of the defective genes.
15690	This disorder often arises from other diseases that results to the abnormally highly levels of cortisol in the body that creates a number of health complications. However, majority of the Cushing's Syndrome is caused by the use of steroid medications.
15691	Cutaneous anthrax is caused by the bacteria called Bacillus anthracis, which is a a gram positive, spore-forming and encapsulated bacteria. It usually occurs when the bacteria or spores enter the human body through an abrasion or cut, and in which case it smwptoms will develop within the succeeding 48 hours.
15692	Some of the known causes of Cutaneous horn include dermafibroma, angiona, angiokeratoma, Lichen simplex chronicus, Seborrheic keratosis, sebaceous cyst, and Pyogenic granuloma. It can also be benign infectious in form such as genital warts or malignant such as certain forms of melanoma.
15693	Cutaneous larva migrans or CLM is manifested in human skin as red and wormlike burrows in the skin which are very itchy. Often, itching becomes extremely intense and painful and can trigger another bacterial infection once scratched.
15694	Cutaneous lupus erythematosus is believed by the prolonged use of certain drugs scuh as glyburide, thiazide diuretics, penicillamine, and calcium channel blockers.
15695	The cause of Cutaneous T-cell lymphoma is still largely unknown and like other types of cancer is considered not infectious and cannot be passed on to other people even in close contact.
15696	The underlying cause of cutis laxa is still not known and probably variable. Some theories include low lysyl oxidase activity, abnormal copper metabolism/copper deficiency, decreased elastin gene expression, increased elastase activity and immune-mediated mechanisms. Surgical Care
15697	The cause of Cutis marmorata telangiectatica congenital as well as the risk factors aree still largely unknown. Experts believe that there may be several factors that cause this medical condition that may include external and viral factors.
15698	The main cause of cutis rhomboidalis nuchae is the chronic sun exposure that causes the superficial layer as well as the abnormalities in the composition.
15699	The main cause of Cutis verticis gyrate is still largely unknown but in most cases it is said to be an autosomal dominant inheritance. This consition is prevalent in men and develops right after puberty.
15700	Causes for cyclic neutropenia usually include several possible factors such ass cancer, radiation, hereditary disoders, folate deficiency and chemotheraphy. Other probable casues also include aplastic anemia, certain medications and hemodialysis.
15701	There is no known cause for the disorder, but studies show that some people who experience migraines have, in some cases a cyclic vomiting syndrome
15702	The cause of the infection is the Cyclospora cayetanensis, which is a tiny, one-celled parasite. It infects through contaminated drinking water or food but its transmission is still unclear. However, the infected person passes the parasite in his or her stool
15703	It's not largely unknown the specific causes of cyclothymia. As with some other mental disorders, research have shown that it may be a result to the combination of these three factors: biochemical processes of the body, genetics and environment.
15704	The specific cause of cyclothymic disorder is not known but the condition can be a result of combination of contributory factors including genetics, alterations in brain chemistry, and environment.
15705	Cystathionine beta-synthase deficiency disease is an autosomal recessive disorder.
15706	Cystic Fibrosis is genetic. A child who has CF most likely inherited an abnormal gene from both parents. If only one parent carries an abnormal gene, the child will have no signs of CF and will live a normal life, but becomes a carrier.
15707	Cystic hygromas can either occur as a separate finding or with other birth defects. Normally, cystic hygromas result from environmental factors and genetic factors. Environmental causes include viral infections or substance abuse (alcohol) during pregnancy. Aside from the two factors mentioned there are other unknown factors that can cause cystic hygroma.
15708	Cystinosis is caused by the inheritance of an autosomal recessive genes, with both parent act as carrier of the defective genes.
15709	As discussed cystinuria is caused by a metabolic disorder that is inherited and greatly affects the patient's kidney.
15710	The primary cause of cystitis is an infection of the bladder that affects the urinary tract and starts to multiply. While the bladder is known to secrete antibacterial properties and urine also contains certain properties that prevent the growth of bacteria, in the case of cystitis, the risk of infection increase and multiplies into a full blown infection.
15711	What causes interstitial cystitis is when communication or signals from the pelvic nerves of the bladder to the brain gets mixed up the moment it's full, letting you urinate more often with smaller volumes of fluid as compared with most people.
15712	The most common causes of cystocele are pregnancy and childbirth. This is because of the stretching and the weakening of the muscles and ligaments that support and hold the vagina during labor and delivery. Multiple pregnancies make cystoceles more common. Cystocele may also be caused by straining your pelvic floor muscles through straining with bowel movements, being obese or overweight, having a chronic cough or bronchitis and repeated heavy lifting.
15713	A virus that belongs to the herpes group, which is known as cytomegalic virus or CMV, causes the disease. CMV can stay formant following initial infection, and then be reactivated periodically all through life.
15714	Cytomegalovirus is a viral genus from a group of herpesviruses, and is in itself a cause for a condition. It causes the Cytomegalic Inclusion Body Disease or CIBD. An initial infection of this virus may not cause symptoms, but it continues to survive in the body unnoticeably without obvious illness or damage.
15716	Shampooing too often or not often enough, stress, poor diet, oily skin, dry skin and the use of too many fancy styling products are among the factors that cause dandruff. The yeast-like, fat-eating fungus called Malassezia, formerly called pityrosporum might be the real culprit with regard some of the factors that exacerbate or contribute to scalp flaking.
15717	The main cause of the disease is by the mosquitoes that carry the virus. It can be transmitted via mosquito bites which thrive on stagnant water.
15718	The root of the condition is mostly unknown. However, generic or family occurrence has shown, and is deemed to be the outcome of numerous factors.
15719	The disease is caused by a mutation in a gene called ATP2A2. The mutation results to disrupted signaling within the cells and causes the skin condition.
15720	The potential causes of Hypersomnia include central autonomic nervous system dysfunction, brain tumor, side effect of medication, head injury, sleep disorders such as narcolepsy, drug or alcohol abuse and as well as the Kleine-Levin syndrome which causes recurring periods of excessive sleeping, irritability, disorientation, binge eating and hypersensitivity to noise.
15721	The disease is caused by mutations in the NIPBL, SMC3 and SMC1A genes that produce the protein delangin, which directs the manner of development before birth.
15722	De Quervain's tenosynovitis is caused by the inflammation of the tendons that connects the base of the thumb, thereby restricting movement and causing pain. This is primary caused by the chronic overuse of the wrist such as in the case of a repetitive motion. Other causes may include direct injury of the tendon and wrist, scar tissues that may restrict movement, as well as inflammatory arthritis.
15723	This disorder is an uncommon autosomal recessive mannerism caused by the mutations of genes. The gene responsible is known as ERCC6. Mutations to this gene lead to the symptoms of De Sanctis-Cacchione syndrome.
15725	Bedsores are caused by poor hygiene since the patient lies on the bed for a long time without taking time to make other body movements.
15726	Deep skin infection is caused by the bacterial strains of Group A Streptococcus and Staphylococcus. The can enter the skin by insect bites, blieters, rashes and intravenous procedures such as tattoos.
15727	The cause of deep vein thrombosis is blood clot formation in the veins deep in the body.
15728	Deerfly fever does not generally occur naturally among human, although it does with animals. Causes include insect bites of infected animal, exposure to sick and dead animals, airborne bacteria, and ingestion of water and food that are contaminated.
15729	Joint deterioration is caused by the inflammation of the cartilage of the joints. The cartilage acts as cushion that allows the joints to move easily. It also protects the joints from friction.
15730	Degenerative nerve disease is caused by genetic defects in the central nervous system.
15731	The exact cause of Degos disease is still unknown.
15732	Dejerine-Sottas disease is a genetically transmitted disease, wherein the protective sheath surrounding the 'long nerves' breaks down endangering and exposing the nerve. This break down or demylination occurs for unknown reasons.
15733	The common causes of gastroparesis include surgery, medications, cancer treatments and diabetes. After an operation involving your stomach, esophagus or the upper part of your small intestine, symptoms may develop immediately. Common side effects of chemotherapy on cancer treatments may also contribute in nausea and vomiting. Other disorders or medical conditions also add up or cause gastroparesis. Among such disorders are bulimia and anorexia, nervous system illnesses and metabolic disorders.
15734	Medical researchers have not exactly pinpointed the exact cause of this medical condition. However, there are a number of underlying factors that can cause delirium. In most cases, it is believed that there are some people who are especially prone to delirium attacks such as frail and older people. Other factors may include sleep deprivation, stress, medication and acute stress such as in cases of blood loss, infection, heart attacks and dehydration.
15735	The disease is caused by aging. Memory glands begin to fail to function properly, such that patients begin to lose their coordination with the present.
15736	Demodex mite causes the infection. These mites embed themselves in a person's skin or hair follicles, which leads to the symptoms of the infections. Factors that appear significant in producing an increase in mites include too much use of cosmetics like powders and creams, as well as failure in proper skin cleansing.
15737	A number of Demyelinating diseases may be caused by heredity, some through infectious diseases, others through autoimmune reactions, and some by factors that are unknown.
15738	One of the four viruses of dengue carried by an Aedes aegypti mosquito causes Dengue fever. These mosquitoes survive near and in human environments, where they usually breed in waters.
15739	There are actually four different types of dengue viruses that are known to cause dengue hemorrhagic fever. This disease is contracted after a person is bitten by an infection mosquito.
15740	Dent Disease is caused by abnormal genetic mutations in the kidney chloride channel.
15741	It is caused by the excessive intake of flouride by a person either through natural circumstances like high flouride content of the drinking water or from other sources like high fluoride toothpastes.
15743	Dentinogenesis imperfecta is a genetic disorder thus it is caused by abnormal mutations in the DSPP gene that affects the production of protein essential for development of normal and strong teeth. Dentin which makes up the protective middle layer of the teeth is the part usually affected thus making the teeth susceptible to easy wear and decay.
15744	Depersonalization disorder has believed to be closely associated with childhood interpersonal trauma. This may be brought about by emotional abuse that has caused a significant impact on the person, enough to disassociate himself from reality. Other contributing factors may include stress, panic, depression, and ingestion of hallucinogens and marijuana.
15745	Depression in children can be caused by stress and traumas due to the experiences they faced during their earlier stages of life. Family issues such as the parents' divorce can also lead to a depressive state.
15746	This depression is caused by traumas, frustrations and other events that have great significance in the person's life. Depression is commonly seen in people who are undergoing a midlife crisis. Elder people who get depressed usually are those who have lost their loved ones.
15747	There isn't a known cause of Dercum's disease yet, however, some researches suggest that it is genetic since it runs in some families. Other studies also suggested that the use of corticosteroids which are often use as anti-flamatory agent. Disturbance in the endocrine glands is also sighted as one cause, while another study suggests it is an autoimmune disorder, a condition wherein the body's immune system attacks normal and healthy tissues of the body.
15748	It is a systemic condition caused by gluten in cereals which affects the intestine.
15749	Statis dermatitis is a condition characterized as to once the blood starts to congregate in a human body, and in particular in the legs, it causes changes to the skin, and often the principal cause of a person having varicose veins.
15751	The primary underlying cause of nummular dermatitis still remains known. However, it is often associated with some known triggering factors. This includes frequent bathing, the use of irritating and extremely drying soaps, as well as the exposure to some abrasive fabrics such as wool. This skin disease may be chronic in nature.
15752	Medical experts believe there is more than one single cause for Perioral dermatitis. Among the most common factors identified is the prolonged use of the topical steroid as well as the use of steroid sprays as inhaled prescriptions. Other causative agents include fluorinated toothpastes , face creams and moisturizers.
15754	Dermatographia may be caused by an allergic response although the exact cause of the disorder isn't clear yet.
15755	The underlying cause of this disease is not yet known, although some studies suggests it can be caused by fitting or abrasive clothing, glasses, watches, cold, stress, heat, torid kissing or anything that may cause skin stress.
15756	Although there is not a deep explaination of the cause of this disease, several theories have surfaced. One theory points on the immune reaction of our system to any unidentified virus or an autoimmune disorder may have triggered it, while another theory suggests that it is brought about by aging muscles causing the build up of pathogenic proteins in the myofiber.
15757	This disease is caused by a dominant mutations in keratin 14 protein which is responsible for the healthy formation and development of our hair and skin. It is also suggested that the disease is hereditary in nature, a genetic disorder which is inherited in an autosomal dominant fashion.
15758	The cause of the lesions of dermatophytids is believed to be our system's allergic reaction often associated to fungal infections like ringworms.
15759	Different fungus cause dermatophytosis, like Tinea pedis which affect the feet and cause athlete's foot, T. unguium affects the nails in both fingers and toes, T. capitis severes the scalp while T. barbae attacks the facial hair. Other fungus that also affects differnt parts of the body are T. corporis and T. faciei but in most cases, dermatophytes belonging to the genera of Microsporum and Trichophyton cause dermatophytosis. These fungus strive well in skin that is hot, moist, and hidden from the light. Transmission can occur through direct contact with infected lesions or inderectly through contaminated objects such as shoes, shower stalls or towels. It can also be caused by weather conditions and how people dress up, especially during warm weather and people wear tight fitting clothes which encourage growth of fungus.
15759	Dermatophytes is a group of mold-like fungi that causes athlete's foot. Infecting the superficial layer of the skin, these organisms sprout tendril-like extensions and the basal layer of the skin produces more skin cells than usual in response to this fungal growth. The skin becomes thick and scaly when these cells push to the surface and the more scales your skin produces upon the spreading of the fungi which will cause the ring of advancing infection to form.
15760	The disorder is a side effect of DES medications while a woman is pregnant. DES is a drug used to prevent one from having a miscarriage.
15761	Although there is not a known cause of this disease at present, studies associate this to trauma or hormonal factors such as estrogen or it may also be genetic in nature as some tend to occur in people who have history of polyposis coli.
15762	As of present time, there is no known cause of this disease. Although, it appears to grow out from primary cells of childhood.
15763	Developmental delay is a result of brain injuries or trauma either during a mother's pregnancy or during the child's first months of life.
15764	The cause of this disease is speculated to be an autoimmune etiology, but as of now there is still no identifided exact cause.
15765	The cause of this disease is believed to be genetic and are hereditary. Other list of causes of this disease are Situs inversus viscerum, Marden-walker syndrome, Kartagener's syndrome, and Cumming syndrome.
15766	This condition is present at birth and even during fetal development. It is a condition that is transmitted genetically, most of the time a recessive disorder of an affected family.
15767	Diabetes insipidus or DI is commonly caused by a certain hormone deficiency known as antidiuretic hormone or ADH which is responsible for the regulation of concentrated urine. It can also be caused by the kidney's insensitivity to ADH.
15768	There is no known direct effect of this disease although it was thought to be a genetic condition which may be passed on to generations.
15769	This condition is caused by the loss of cells producing insulin, specifically in our pancreas.
15770	This is a disease which occurs as a complication of Diabetes mellitus and caused by high levels of blood sugar in our system thus resulting to the damage or eventual death of our lymph vessels or blood vessels.
15771	If either having a too high or too low blood sugar for too long, prolonged blood sugar extremes may cause various conditions leading to a diabetic coma. Among the causes are hypoglycemia, which causes you to pass out because of low blood sugar in severe cases where it is needed by your brain; diabetic ketoacidosis, a process where your body responds to breaking down fat stores if your muscle cells become starved for energy; and diabetic hyperosmolar syndrome, where your blood sugar gets very high, letting your blood become thick and syrupy.
15772	The primary cause of diabetic dermopathy is said to be a type of angiitis, which is a form of vascular inflammation that affects the small blood vessels of the skin. It can also appear on diabetics after a trauma to the lower leg.
15773	Diabetic hyperosmolar syndrome is usually triggered by illness as part of its complications, an underlying form of infection, substance abuse, not following diabetes treatment plan may also be triggered by some medications.
15774	The main source of energy that make up your muscles from the cells and other tissues if sugar. With the help of insulin, sugar enters your cells. If your body does not have enough insulin, it won't be able to use sugar for energy. What usually triggers diabetic ketoacidosis is an illness or an infection that make your body produce certain hormones like adrenaline. These hormones work against insulin that would sometimes trigger diabetic ketoacidosis. Urinary tract infections as well as pneumonia can also be common causes. An episode of diabetic ketoacidosis might also be triggered when inadequate insulin therapy or missed insulin treatments leave you with little insulin in your system. Other causes may include stroke, heart attack, stress, high fever, alcohol or drug abuse, surgery and physical or emotional trauma.
15775	It is generally a long-term complication of a chronic diabetes which also resulted from angiopathy on the kidney vessels. High blood sugar levels can be associated to be an indirect cause of this disease.
15776	Diabetis mellitus is the usual cause of diabetic neuropathy. Other factors, like age, cigarette smoking, hypertension, height and hyperlipidemia can also precipitate diabetic neuropathy.
15777	Having a high sugar level in your blood when you have diabetes which your body doesn't use sugar properly, your natural lens may swell which will lead to blurring your vision. The tiny blood vessels that nourish the retina can be damaged if you have too much sugar in your blood.
15778	Occurring among members of a family usually by heredity .
15779	Tracing a number of sources, a diaper rash can be caused by introduction of new foods, where changes in your baby's diet include the increase of the frequency of stools; irritation from stool or urine, where he or she is experiencing frequent bowel movements; irritation from a new product such as disposable swipes; and bacterial or yeast (fungal) infection as to what begins as a simple skin infection may spread to the surrounding region covered by the diaper. Other causes include the use of antibiotics and having a sensitive skin as well.
15780	There are many factors that cause Diaphragmatic hernia. It can be through the genes or might be cause by the environment, or both are involved. It is believed that genes from both the parents and a number of various environmental factors that up until now, scientists do not yet have a full understanding, could contribute to the occurrence of the condition.
15781	Diarrhoea in children can be a result of digestion of spoiled food, consumption of contaminated water, as well as poor sanitation.
15782	Diastrophic dysplasia is an inherited disorder that follows a certain type of pattern known as autosomal recessive. This means that for it to be passed on to a child, both of the parents must be a carrier of the diastrophic dysplasia or DD gene. A couple who has passed on the DD gene to a child has a 25% risk of passing on the disorder to their future children.
15783	LPI is acquired through Genes,both parents of the patient may be carrier of the disease. There is no known cure of this disease but patient are restricted to protein diet and oral citruline supplementation (a neutral amino acid that promotes urea cycle) are advice to prevent and correct hyperammonemia.
15785	There is no exact cause for the illness.
15786	There are different factors that precipitate DPLD, such as inhaled substance like asbestosis and silicosis,drug induced DPLD like antibiotics, and chemotherapeutic drugs, connective tissue diseases, idiopathic deseases or unknown diseases, infection of the lungs and malignancy or cancerous cells.
15787	DGS is caused by a genetic defect in the chromosome 22q11.
15788	DiGeorge syndrome is probably caused by genetic deletion and abnormal development of the 3rd and 4rth pharyngeal pouches that affect the development of the thymus gland who is responsible in T lymphocytes development. As a result of impaired immune function.
15789	Causes of Dihydropyramide dehydrogenace deficiency, as the name itself implies, is because of an abnormal production as well as activity of the enzyme dihydropyramidine dehydrogenase which helps in a certain metabolic process.
15790	Dilated cardiomyopathy commonly results from chronic myocardium damage that also causes by toxic in our body, metabolic agent or infectious factor. Autoimmune response also results to dilated cardiomyopathy.Other factors that can precipitate DCM are alcohol abuse, pregnancy, thyroid diseases and infection. Some have unknown cause.
15792	Diphallia is cause by genetic mutation of the fetus during 23rd - 35th days of gestation due to trauma and chemical reaction.
15793	The only cause of this disease is the Corynebacterium dephtheriae, a fascultatively anaerobic Gram positive bacteria. It is spread through direct contact like like touching and breathing the aerosolized secretions of the patient.
15795	The most common cause of SLE is genetic factors. Environmental factors also trigger the disease such as stress, exposure to sunlight, hormonal imbalance and infection. Some medication can cause SLE, one example is antidepressant. Discoid Lupus patient may also develop SLE.
15796	Childhood disintegrative disorder occurs abruptly over the course of days to weeks or even gradually over an extended period of time for there's no known cause for this disorder.
15797	The causes of a dislocated shoulder may be from sports injuries such as in contact sports like football and hockey, falls, such as from a ladder and trauma not related to sports such as a hard blow to your shoulder during a motor vehicle accident.
15798	Dislocations are caused by sports injuries which are common like in football and hockey and those that involve falls such as downhill skiing and gymnastics. Other causes of dislocations involve falls and trauma not related to sports.
15799	Schizophrenia results from problems with early brain development as what most researchers believe. Their studies focused on the way brain cells communicate with each other through nerve pathways, where too few or too many connections in the important pathways emotional regulation may lead to psychotic symptoms.
15800	Dissecting aneurysm or aortic dissection happens in a weakened area of the aortic wall. Chronic high blood pressure may make the aortic tissue more susceptible to tearing because of stress. Aortic dissections may be caused rarely by traumatic injury to the chest area as that during motor vehicle accidents.
15801	Dissociative amnesia is typically caused by stress that may be associated with some serious traumatic experiences witnessed or endured. This may include physical and sexual abuse, abandonment, conflict, rape, natural disasters, financial troubles and death of a loved one. It is believed that there are certain people who are predisposed to amnesia as the mind's way to escaping from a certain traumatic event.
15802	It is caused by various defects from genetic coding of a person.
15803	It is thought that the development of the colonic diverticulum is a result of an increase in the pressure of the intraluminal colon. Low dietary fiber, particularly non-soluble fiber was thought to have a role in the predisposing of people to diverticular disease as also supported by the medical literature. The blockage, mechanical, of a diverticulum or diverticula by a piece of feces or insoluble particles of food will at a point lead to infection.
15803	The main cause of diverticulosis and diverticulitis is low fiber diet. The pressures of the intraluminal colon is raised due to mechanical blockage of the diverticulum, possibly it is caused by impacted feces or food particles that can also lead to infection.
15804	The potential causes of dizziness include vertigo, which is the false sense of motion or spinning, feeling of faintness (presyncope), loss of balance (disequilibrium) and lightheadedness.
15805	Dizziness in children is caused by many factors. They may have experienced sudden trauma or injury prior to feeling dizzy. Viral infections may contribute to dizziness, such as infection of the inner ear.
15806	This condition is often inherited and are usually dominant genes. Acquired ichthyosis occurs very rarely and it must be viewed as a symptom of other diseases in the system, which also includes malignancy. Most cases, though, are attributed to the use or exposure of a person to certain medications tha can trigger the disease.
15807	The defect usually forms during the first 8 weeks of development of the fetus. Some congenital defects of the heart may have been linked genetically. It occurs either because of a defective gene say an abnormality in the chromosome, or it may be aroused by the different environmental exposure that may cause DORV to occur.
15808	The causes of double uterus are still unknown to researchers but the condition may be associated with kidney abnormalities, suggesting that something may influence the development of these related tubes before birth.
15810	This is a congenital disease caused by an extra choromosome present in the child occuring during the early fetal development stages.
15811	It occurs in reaction to Doxurubicin drug, Doxorubicin is a drug, an antineoplastic antibiotic which was produced and developed by Streptomyces peucetius. It binds to DNA and acts as inhibitor of nucleic acid synthesis. It is also used as hydrochloride salt or as a liposome-encased preparation of the others salts like hydrochloride. This is a 14-hydroxylated version of a daunorubicin, which is more abundantly and naturaly found product because it is made by different types of wild strains of streptomyces. However, there is only one known species which is not wild. It is called streptomyces peucetius subspecies cesius ATCC 27952. Initially, it was found to produce doxorubicin which is widely used. In the year 1996, Strohl's group also discovered dox A. This is the gene that encodes the enzyme responsible for converting daunorubicin to DXR. By the year 1999, they produced a Cytochrome P450 oxidase, and found out that it catalyzes many steps in the biosynthesis or DXR, including steps leading to daunorubicin.
15812	Drinking or exposure to contaminated water will cause a person to be infected with this condition. The female worms to release their larvae into the water. The larvae are then swallowed by fresh-water arthropods which are microscopic known as copepods or "water fleas" as others call it. Infection may occur when humans drink the contaminated water. In next 10-14 months, the female worms get fertilized by the male worm. The female continues to develops fully. The adult female is packed with very many larvae. There will be blisters on the skin where the worm will then emerge and causes a burning pain. To relieve the pain, people often soak the affected area in water. When submerged in water, the female worm then releases liquid with milky white appearance. It contains very many guinea worm larvae.
15813	much like its reaction to an illness or a virus. The human body responds by sending out proteins called antibodies that are the underlying cause of the inflammation and causes the other symptoms associated with the condition."
15814	Edemas are caused by pressures between the tissues. Pressure of fluids outside the body tissues cause an imbalance of the inflow and outflow of fluids, and the area where the fluids become concentrated forms an edema.
15815	A drug rash is caused by an adverse reaction to certain medications.
15816	Drug-induced liver disease is caused by certain kinds of NSAIDS, antibiotics, anti-cancer agents, high cholesterol and irregular heartbeat.
15817	Normally, a person produced about three pints of saliva a day. The development of dry mouth is usually triggered with a number of factors, mainly the aging process, side-effects of medications as well as complications of other health-related problems. Other possible causes may include cancer treatment, nerve damage and underlying health conditions.
15818	There are a number of causes associated with dry skin. Some of the common factors include environmental exposure such as weather, central air-conditioning or heating, showers and hot baths, and harsh soaps. Other possible causes include psoriasis, thyroid disorders, dehydration and alcohol and drugs.
15819	The prices cause of a dry socket still remains unknown. However medical researchers believe it can arise due to some factors such as possible bacterial contamination, bone or root fragments that remain after surgery and traumatic tooth extraction.
15820	DS is caused by a wrong wiring of the muscles of the eye, which cause some muscles to contract abnormally. The abducens nucleus and the nerve are missing or are hypoplastic, and lateral rectus is disturbed by a branch of oculomotor nerve.
15821	Dubin-Johnson syndrome is a hereditary condition which is very rare, usually recessive, which means that a child must have gotten a copy of the defective recessive gene from both parents who are also both carriers of the disease.
15822	This disorder is genetic and may be acquired by people or a child through his parents gentic information.
15823	Duchenne muscular dystrophy is caused by a mutation of the dystrophin gene whose protein product is responsible for the connection of muscle fibers to the extracellular matrix through a protein complex containing many subunits. The absence or lack of dystrophin allows the excess amount of calcium to be able to penetrate the sarcolemma (cell membrane). In a highly complex cascading process that typically involves a number of pathways is not clearly comprtehensible, the increased level of oxidative stress within the cell will damage the sarcolemma, which will eventually result in the death of the cell. Muscle fibers undergo necrosis and are ultimately replaced with adipose and connective tissue
15824	There is still to real explanation as to the real cause of Ductal carcinoma in situ. However, medical studies are exploring the possibility of a combination of environmental factors, genetics and hormonal exposures.
15825	Dumping syndrome is usually caused after a surgery in the stomach that accelerates the digestion of the food in an abnormally rapid manner. However, there can be some underlying complications that may cause this sundrome.
15826	The underlying cause of Duodenal Atresia is still la rgely unknown. However, medical experts believe that this medical condiotion is mainly attributed to genetic mutations that may be autosomal recessive in form.
15827	Correlations to men has smoking and drinking activity are mentions to be affected, and people of scandinavian or northern european ancestry are primarily affected especially those of Viking descent. Diabetes , thyroid, epilepsy, alcoholism, liver disease and pulmonary tuberculosis are also correlated to the causes of this disease.
15828	Dust mite allergy is caused of the dust mite residue that is primarily made up of decaying bodies and feces that freely floats in the air. When allergic to it, the body reacts to it and the immune system mistakenly identifies it as an invader causing the production of antibodies, hence the allergic reaction.
15830	Dysautonomias causes are not fully understood, but they are thought to include viral illness, genetic factors and exposure to chemicals. Trauma is often considered as another possible cause together immune disorder.
15831	The primary casue of this condition is mainly due to the rapid change in altitude the provides a serious impact of the normal functions of the body. In mild cases, the symptoms are not debilitating such as mild dizziness but it is also known to cause paralysis and stroke.
15833	Because Dysfibrinogenemia, familial is a hereditary disease, this is passed on from the parents to their children. The disease is typically inherited in a codominant or autosomal dominant style.
15835	Lack in fine motor coordination to produce legible handwriting, inability to re-visualize letters and numbers, and inability to remember the motor patterns of letter forms are the combining causes of dysgraphia.
15836	The underlying cause of dyshidrosis still remains unknown. However, in most cases it often associated with other skin conditions such as atopic dermatitis and other forms of allergic reactions. These blisters would usually last for a few weeks or so.
15837	The X-linked type of Dyskeratosis congenita (DKC) has been found to be brought about by the DKC1 mutations. Most of the time, dyskeratosis congenita's pattern of inheritance is X-linked recessive. HOwever, there have been reports that autosomal recessive and dominant patterns are likely causes as well.
15838	Dyskinesia takes place as a result of medications like L-dopa and antipsychotic drugs.
15839	Despite tardive dyskinesia been known to exist for over more than 50 years, its etiology still largely remains poorly understood mainly due to the rather limited research that were conducted on the side effects of this psychiatric drug. The main underlying cause of the tardive dyskinesia have been known to appear to be related to certain damage to the patient's internal system which is believed to use and process the neurotransmitter dopamine. Among the most compelling lines of evidences that suggest the tardive dyskinesia may often result primarily from the neuroleptic-induced dopamine supersensitivity in the body's nigrostrial pathway, along with the D2 dopamine receptor being said to be the most affected. Neuroleptics typically act firstly on the dopamine system, and then the older neuroleptics, which have a considerably greater affinity for the site of the D2 binding, are to be associated with the high and intensified risk for tardive dyskinesia.
15840	Dyslexia is thought to be caused by malfunction in certain sections of the brain that is responsible for language and tend to run in families. It has been discovered that there are several genes that contribute to the risk of developing dyslexia.
15841	These learning disorders can be a result of alcohol consume during a woman's pregnancy.
15842	The exact causes for the condition remain unknown.
15842	This learning problem doesn't have anything to do with intellectual quotients, since dyslexia is caused by the differences of interactions in the areas of the brain that deal with language.
15843	It is not yet clearly established but experts believe that prostaglandins and increased levels of leukotriene, which are involved in inflammation, are contributory factors that cause primary dysmenorrhea. Secondary dysmenorrhea can be caused by any of the following conditions: pelvic inflammatory disease, uterine fibroids and polyps, adenomyosis, and use of intrauterine device (IUD) for birth control.
15844	Dysmetabolic syndrome can be incurred by people suffering from obesity, diabetes and insulin resistance. The syndrome can cause damages to the arteries, kidneys, heart attacks and nerve illnesses.
15845	Heredity is believed to be a contributing factor of the disorder. The occurence of dysmorphophobia has been found to be 4 times more likely in the first-degree relatives of patients suffering from the condition than in the relatives of the probands not affected by dysmorphophobia. This psychiatric disorder is said to be associated with the obsessive-compulsive condition because patients of dysmorphophobia are typically those who suffer from obsessive-compulsive behaviors as well.
15846	Dysmotility is caused by various underlying diseases that affect the gastrointestinal tract.
15847	Dysostosis is passed on via a pattern that is autosomal dominant. This means that if one parent is suffering from the condition, each child has a 50% likelihood of developing the disorder. Dysostosis is also congenital, that is, the condition is already present since birth. It has been found out to affect both genders equally.
15848	The causes of dysparenia may vary depending on the location of the pain. Underlying cause may include inadequate lubrication, irritation, injury or trauma, an inflammation or skin disorder, reaction to birth control products and vaginusmus. For women who experience deep pain., this may be due to infections and possible underlying illnesses.
15849	May be caused by ulcer or gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD) but most of the time it is because of eating too much, eating quickly, intake of high-fat foods or eating during stressful conditions. Other causes can are smoking, drinking too much alcohol, being tired, and ongoing stress.
15850	The cause of nonulcer stomach pain is still unknown. In some cases it may occur after a viral infection, but this is rare. Doctors consider it a functional disorder not necessarily related to a specific disease. However, temporary and often aggravating factors can be common causes of the signs and symptoms of nonulcer stomach pain.
15851	Dysphagia occurs when there is abnormality in any part of the swallowing process including weak esophageal muscle, poorly coordinated muscles of the esophagus and other underlying conditions like esophageal tumors.
15852	Dysphasia is a brain defect situated in the left part of the cranium where language and communication skills are processed.
15853	These atypical moles are acquired usually appearing during adolescence. There are cases wherein inheritance is linked to the development of these moles.
15854	Dysplastic nevus syndrome can be inherited or usually appear sporadically. Medical experts believe that constant exposure can play a significant part, although there are some cases where the moles appear on sun-protected areas of the skin. Patients with dysplastic nevus have a considerably high chances of developing melanoma.
15855	Impaired development of cells during the fetal stage can cause dyspraxia. Any kind of injury to the brain may cause dyspraxia including lack of oxygen during birth or brain damage caused by illness, stroke or any accident.
15856	Dysrhythmias are primarily caused by a genetic mutations in theTSC1 and TSC2 genes. In general, these genes prevent cells from growing too fast or develop in an uncontrolled manner.
15857	Dysthymia is considered as a serious disorder and have been found to commonly appear on women than in men. Its causes can be traced to some genetic susceptibility, adult or childhood trauma and stress, neurochemical imbalance and some social circumstances.
15858	Sleep abnormalities, neurotransmitters , hormones, upbringing, heredity and events that cause stress are all considered as possible causes of depression leading to dysthymic disorder.
15859	Dystonia may be caused by some central nervous system that may originate from some certain parts of the brain that is primary concerned with some motor functions. Another possible cause involves trauma and possible brain damage or chemical imbalance.
15860	Cervical dystonia is brought about by the abnormally excessive input of the brain to the muscles which affects the electrical activity of the basal ganglia or the cerebral cortex.
15861	As discussed, Dystrophia myotonica is an autosomal dominant and multi-systme disorder. The affected individual usually have an increased the number of copies of the mutated portion of the gene.
15862	The exact cause of the illness is still undetected.
15863	The cause of Eales disease still remains unknown. It is often some diagnosis of exclusion and is typically thought to be idiopathic. There are no environmental factors, causative drugs or some sort of infectious agents that can be directly related with Eales disease.
15864	Most often the cause of an ear infection is viral in nature such as a cold. This can sometimes cause the ear to become inflamed and the fluid builds up behind the eardrum. Since children don't still have a fully developed immune system they become more susceptible to such type of infections.
15865	Causes of a ruptured eardrum may include infection of the middle ear, damage by a foreign object, airplane ear or rupture caused by the pressure from descent and ascent of the airplane, and sudden loud noises.
15866	The common causes of early menopause include exposure to toxins and chromosomal defects. Genetics may also play a role in early menopausal as well as malfunctioning of the ovaries that may be caused by other underlying ailments.
15867	Causes of early puberty may be due to the early processing of the brain to release gonadotropin hormones. Pituitary glands and sex hormones may also be prematurely produced. In rare cases, this condition may be an indication of an underlying illness such as tumor of the brain, brain defects and hypothyroidism.
15868	Lined with hair follicles, the ear canal has glands that produce or secrete waxy oil called cerumen. The said wax protects the ear by trapping dust, microorganisms, and other foreign articles. The cerumen usually makes it way to the opening of the ear in most people, and then it falls out or is removed by washing. In some cases though, the glands produce more wax that hardens within the ear. If not cleared properly and effectively, the wax will be pushed deeper into the ear canal and cause blockage.
15869	Emotional eating is caused by anxiety over one's weight; others tend to vomit all the food they ate, some meanwhile consume lots of food whenever they feel like doing so. Binge eating may be caused by depression as some people release their emotions to such actions such as eating.
15870	Viral hemorrhagic fevers are typically caused by four families of viruses: arenaviruses, filoviruses, bunyaviruses and flaviviruses. Among the usual hosts of this disease includes mosquitoes and ticks, along with rodents and can be transmitted by close contact with an infected person.
15871	Ebstein's anomaly is a congenital condition, which means it is often detected before or right after birth and is already present during fetal development.
15872	Echolalia is an effect of language difficulties among autistic children.
15873	No one knows the exact causes of eclampsia but is believed to occur more often among women on their first pregnancies most especially in twins and in women who are over 35 years old. It can also be a hereditary condition that can be passed on from one generation to another.
15874	There are actually several different types of ectodermal dysplasia that has been recorded to date. This medical condition is primarily caused by an autosomal dominant form that affects both males and females.
15875	Medical experts believe that there has been some slim evidences relating ectopia cordis to Turner Syndrome. This largely involves chromosomal anomalies such as the Trisomy 18 that ahs been observed among children suffering from ectopia cordis. In general, there is no underlying recognizable cause for this serious medical condition. However, this condition is not likely to occur to other future children.
15876	Ectopic heartbeats are considered an arrhythmia that involves small variations in an otherwise normal heartbeat and in many cases, it has no obvious or benign causes. The condition however, is sometimes associated with electrolyte abnormalities in the blood, which need to be corrected. Ischemia or reduction in the blood supply is also associated to Ectopic heartbeat. Excessive smoking, alcohol consumption, side effects of certain medications, caffeine, and some illicit drugs may also cause or worsen the condition.
15877	The underlying causes of ectopic pregnancy are still largely unknown. After the fertilization of oocyte that occurs on the peritoneal cavity, the egg would usually take nine days to travel down to the tube towards the uterine cavity. Wherever the embryo would finds itself at that period, it will begin to implant. Smoking is said to be a cause of tubal damage.
15878	Ectrodactyly is considered to be extremely rare and is believed to only occur once in every 90,000 births. This type of medical condition has several manifestations, but all of them are genetic caused by the mutation of certain choromosome that can be inherited from one of the parents.
15879	What really cause eczema is not yet pinpointed but it may be a result of combination of impairment in the immune system and dry, irritated skin of an individual.
15880	There is no known cause for dyshidrosis but it has been observed that it occurs during certain seasons. The condition is also associated with a similar skin disorder called atopic dermatitis and other allergic conditions.
15881	Arousal among men is a complex process that involves the brain, emotions, hormones, nerves, muscles, and blood vessels. Factors affecting any of said systems or the delicate balance among them may lead to erectile dysfunction. Doctors initially thought that the condition was primarily caused by psychological issues. It was later found that erectile dysfunction could be a combination of physical and psychological causes. Among the physical causes are heart disease, clogged blood vessels, high blood pressure, obesity, metabolic syndrome, and diabetes. Psychological causes include depression, anxiety, stress, fatigue, and poor communication or conflict with the partner. Alcoholism, drugs, certain prescription medicines, and other medical conditions may also cause ED.
15882	When tiny blood vessels (capillaries) in the body leak fluid, it results to edema. The leakage may be cause by a damage or increased pressure in the capillaries. Mild cases of edema can e simply caused by sitting too long or eating too much salty food. The condition is also a common sign of premenstrual syndrome. Pregnant women also often retain excess fluid that cause swelling on their hands, feet, and face. In some cases though, edema can be cause by underlying medical conditions such as congestive heart failure, cirrhosis, kidney disease or damage, weakness or damage to veins in the legs, and inadequate lymphatic system.
15883	Humans normally have an exact 23 pairs of chromosomes. Occasionally, a genetic error may occur during the formation of the egg or sperm cell, causing mutation and genetic abnormalities to occur.
15884	Egg is naturally the primary culprit of egg allergy, in which case the body's immune system malfunctions and reacts to the allergen. The egg yolk and white contains proteins that can cause allergies.
15885	Egg hypersensitivity is primarily triggered by the disorder of the immune system that tends to have a overreaction to the protein that in found in eggs. Hence, eggs may be regarded by the body as invaders, triggering the release of certain chemicals such as histamine to help fight of the so-called irritant.
15886	Ehlers-Danlos Syndrome is caused by the known defect in the collagen protein that is primarily responsible for the support and strength of the body which involves the tendons, cartilage, ligaments and of course the skin. Consequently, if the collagen is found defective, it can also create a number of complications all over the body.
15887	Ehrlichiosis is primarily caused by bacteria known as Rickettsiae that has been known to trigger a number of diseases all over the world. The tick may be carried by those that infest dogs and other animals.
15888	Measles is caused by the rubeola virus, an airborne virus that can be passed on through physical contact.
15889	Eisenmenger's syndrome are known to rapidly progress over time which can be a result of some effects of the high blood pressure in the patient's lungs. Such high blood pressure as well as the pulmonary hypertension would occur due to the possibility of congenital heart defects. This causes the blood flow from the left section of the heart to the right section of the heart, or what is commonly known as the left-to-right heart shunt.
15890	This disorder is believe to be causes by possible associations with ADHD and is known to be the stubborn refusal of a child to speak or the abnormal feel of separation. This may be also be caused by the sudden change such ass illness, divorce or death of a person close to the child.
15891	The most common causes of elephantiasis are filariasis, a type of parasitic disease. Thos can be transmitted through sexual contact, streptococcal infections, leprosy, as well as leishmaniasis; repeated; and environmental factors such as exposure to certain types of chemicals.
15892	Ellis Van Creveld syndromeis caused by the mutation of the EVC and EVC2 genes that would often lead to dwarfism. However, the overall features and other causes of this syndrome is still widely unknown. This is also categorized as a autosomal recessive condition.
15893	For years, Emery-Dreifuss muscular dystrophy was associated to Duchenne muscular dystrophy. But has be categorized as a separate disease altogether. This is a genetic defect caused by an X-lined recessive form as well as an autosomal dominant case.
15894	Emetophobia usually develops from a childhood fear that has never been outgrown. Patients with this phobia try to avoid a recurrence of such experience. Some studies reveal that parental role is significant in the development of this phobia.
15895	The identified major underlying cause of emphysema is believed to be cigarette smoking. Emphysema is caused by loss of elasticity of the lung tissue, from destruction of structures supporting the alveoli and destruction of capillaries feeding the alveoli. Other risk factors include a air pollution, airway reactivity, heredity, male sex, and age.
15896	Primary empty sella syndrome happens when a small defect above the pituitary gland increases pressure in area. The secondary empty sella syndrome typically occurs when the sella is found empty due to the shrinking of the pituitary gland following an surgery, injury or a radiation therapy.
15897	Empyema is caused by infection that usually spreads from the lung after a previous pneumonia, cause a large collection of pus and fluid in the cavity between the lungs and its membrane resulting to pressure in the lungs that produces the symptoms of the disorder.
15898	Encephalitis can be caused by bacterial infection like bacterial meningitis or by a complication of other infection diseases like rabies or syphilis. Some parasitic infestations, such as toxoplasmosis, malaria, or primary amoebic meningoencephalitis, can also cause encephalitis in people with compromised immune systems. Brain damage normally occurs as the inflamed section of the brain tends to push against the skull, which would eventually lead to death.
15899	Encephalitis lethargica is one of those rare diseases that has unknown cause. But recent studies suggest that the disese is because of massive immune reaction to an infection by streptococcus-like bacterium, diplococcus . There are also some evidences associating that of autoimmune origin with some antibodies from patients along with several EL binding to the neurons located in the mid- and basal ganglia.
15900	Encephalocele are cause by failure of the neural tube to close completely during fetal development. The result is the formation of a groove down to the midline located on the upper section of the patient's skull, or the specific area between the nose and the forehead, or the back of the skull. When located in the back of the skull, encephaloceles are more often predominantly associated with some neurological problems. There are studies and evidence linking NTD's to folic acid deficiency.
15901	The exact cause of this defect is unknown. However, it's believed that a mother's vitamin and diet intake can play some role; researchers deem that lots of other factors may also be involved.
15902	Encephalomyelitis can be triggered by a variety of conditions that lead to inflammation of the brain and spinal cord. Among the common causes of encephalomyelitis are the viruses which usually infect the nervous system. One type of encephalomyelitis, acute disseminated encephalomyelitis, occurs most commonly after an acute viral infection such as measles and is due to be an autoimmune attack upon the nervous system.
15903	The exact cause of myalgic encephalomyelitis is unknown, but scientists continue to investigate whether its cause is connected to stress, virus, pollution, genetic disorder, or nervous system changes. The condition may be triggered by viral infection or stressful event.
15905	There are two causes cited to cause encopresis. The first one is constipation. Most cases of the condition are the result of constipation. The child's stool is hard, dry and may be painful to pass, making the child avoid going to the toilet. Second are emotional issues. Premature toilet may cause emotional stress to the child. Other triggers also include the divorce of parents or the birth of a sibling
15906	End stage renal disease is caused by other major and progressive diseases such as renal cancer, colon cancer and AIDS.
15907	In the partial type, a hole exists in the wall (septum) that separates the upper chambers (atria). The mitral valve between the upper and lower left chambers does not close completely (mitral valve regurgitation). In the complete type meanwhile, there's a large hole in the center of the heart where the walls between the upper chambers (atria) and lower chambers (ventricles) meet. Instead of two separate valves, there is only one common valve existing for both chambers and the said valve often doesn't close tightly.
15908	The possible causes of this disorder are intrauterine viral infection (mumps, coxsackievirus B), subendocardial ischemia, impaired lymphatic drainage of the heart, and systemic carnitine deficiency. Dilated EFE typically occurs when the patient's heart is otherwise found to be normal and there are no other existing cause of the unexplained heart failure, even including the possibility of systemic carnitine deficiency may be demonstrable. Dilated EFE is commonly associated with the atresia or aortic stenosis and also includes ventricular septal defect, coarctation of the aorta, and some anomalous origin of left coronary artery from the main pulmonary artery as well as myocardial injury from any cause, along with carnitine or metabolic deficiency. Contracted EFE is also associated with hypoplastic left heart syndrome.
15909	Previous attach of rheumatic fever was considered a major factor for this disease before because there are valves deformed. Other causes of this disease are artificial heart valve, some congenital heart disorder and hypertrophic cardiomyopathy. Dental surgery, colonoscopy, urologic or gynecologic surgery, as well as the possibility of skin infections will increase the risks of endocarditis, even if there are no recorded pre-existing deformity of the anatomic valve.
15910	There are many types of organism that can cause infective endocarditis. Often times, responsible micro-oganism is Streptococcus viridans, which are very sensitive to Penicillin and are generally isolated through blood culture. Alpha-haemolytic streptococci, which are present in the oral cavity will usually be the organism isolated if a test or a dental procedure may have caused the bacteraemia. If it was introduced through the skin, the micro-organism Staphylococcus aureus is common. The third most important cause of this disease is Enterococci. They enter the bloodstream because of abnormalities that occur in the gastrointestinal or in the urinary tracts.
15911	Endocrinopathy occurs because of a certain imbalance of the hormones of our body secreted by the endocrine glands. These imbalances are often associated with different complications in the different parts of the body which are responsible for the production and development of hormones.
15912	The exact cause of endometrial cancer is unknown but increased levels of estrogen appear to have a role. Said hormone help stimulate the buildup of the epithelial lining of the uterus. Certain factors and medical conditions increase the risk of endometrial and among those are histories of endometrial polyps or other benign growths of the uterine lining, estrogen replacement therapy, the use of Tamoxifen, a drug for breast cancer treatment, diabetes, never being pregnant, starting menstruation at an early age, infertility, and starting menopause after the age of 50. There are also associated conditions to the disease namely obesity, hypertension, and polycystic ovarian disease.
15912	The specific cause of endometrial cancer is currently unknown. However, recent research points to abnormal estrogen levels as a potential cause. In known cases, elevated levels of estrogen plus estrogen-producing factors have been observed. In addition, current research efforts are attempting to identify a genetic link to endometrial cancer.
15913	The exact cause of uterine polyps is unknown although hormonal factors are found to have roles to play. Uterine polyps respond to estrogen in the same way that the lining of the uterus (endometirum) does. Meaning, it grows in response to circulating estrogen.
15914	It is believed that the cause of this disorder is the very high amount of estrogen being secreted by the glands.
15916	Like all other fears or phobias, enetophobia is cuased by the unconscious mind as a way of protection. It can be that there was an event in ones past linking pins to an emotional trauma. However the condition may also be caused by a myriad, benign events still envolving pins like the movies tha you watch, TV, or can be that one saw other person who is experiencing trauma. As long as the negative event associating the fear is very powerful and influential enough, the mind unconciously thinks that the whole thing will bring danger to him and reaching a point of thinking of how to keep himself from getting in that kind of situation. So just like that this problem is born. Enetophobia occurse when one attach emotions to the situations is often the way that people learn.
15917	Enuresis is a disorder in which a hormone that is supposed to develop physiological changes in one's involuntary urination malfunctions. That hormone was not able to reduce urine production during the child's sleep; at the same time it wasn't able to alert the child's senses when he's about to urinate.
15918	There are many causes which can result from enlarged heart. Hypertension, heart valve disorders, cardiomyopathy, thyroid disorders, excessive iron in the body (hemochromatosis) or abnormal protein buildup in an organ (amyloidosis) might be the primary problem of having a sign of an enlarged heart.
15919	An enlarged liver may be caused by many conditions such as alcohol abuse, nonalcoholic fatty live disease, hepatitis, heart failure, liver cancer, infections such as mononucleosis, excessive iron in the body, and blood disorders such as leukemia.
15920	Doctors are still not certain about the cause of prostate enlargement. It is thought though that with age, changes in the ratio of the male hormone levels stimulate the prostate to grow. There is also another theory stating that the prostate gland become more sensitive or responsive to normal levels of male hormone and grows more rapidly with aging.
15921	There are various causes for the spleen to enlarge, which includes viral infections such as mononucleosis, bacterial infections such as syphilis, parasitic infections such as malaria, cirrhosis and other disease affecting the liver, various types of hemolytic anemia, blood cancers such as leukemia and Hodgkin's disease, and metabolic disorders. Pressure on the veins from the spleen or to the liver may also cause splenomegaly.
15922	Simple goiter is either endemic or sporadic. An endemic goiter occurs within groups of people living in geographical areas with iodine-depleted soil, regions that are usually away for the seacoast. Inadequate iodine in the diet is mainly the cause, which is still common in central Asia, the Andes region of South America, and central America. The cause for sporadic goiter meanwhile is unknown. In some cases, nontoxic goiter may be caused by medications such as lithium or aminogluthimide. Goiters may also be caused by hereditary factors.
15923	It is caused by Salmonella typhi which is a virulent bacterium which can be transmitted through infected water and foods or direct contact with infected individuals.
15924	The four categories of enterocele are determined by the cause. The first category is traction enterocele, which is caused by pregnancy, childbirth, and loss of estrogen. Congenital enterocele meanwhile is very rare and some women are born with it. Iatrogenic enterocele meanwhile may result from surgical removal of the uterus and some surgical procedures used to put a prolapsed bladder back into position to treat urinary incontinence but the cause of this category is not really fully known. Pulsion enterocele meanwhile may be caused by pressure inside the abdomen, such as chronic cough or extreme physical exertion.
15925	The causes of entercolitis can be because of acidic reactions in the intestinal tract, as well as results from harmful diets.
15926	The causes of entropion are genetic, and others are born with the disease.
15926	Entropion can either be caused by genetic mutations or a congenital birth defect. Trachoma infection can as well aggravate the presence of entropion.
15927	Though the exact cause of bed-wetting is not really known, there are various factors cited that may play a role in the condition. Among those is a small bladder, inability to recognize a full bladder, hormone imbalance, stress, urinary tract infection, sleep apnea, diabetes, chronic constipation, and anatomical defect.
15929	Causes of eosinophilia may be traced back to a person's reaction a medication or because of a parasite that infected a specific part of the patient's body may it be the skin or blood.
15930	The disease is still not well understood but some studies prove that it is caused by allergic reactions caused by certain foods and substances.
15931	The known cause of eosinophilic fasciitis is still unknown. Patients with this condition usually have a build up of white blood cells or eosinophils, in the fascia and muscles which is affected. Eosinophils are also associated to allergic-type reactions but the specific function of these cells is also unknown. This syndrome is very common in people between the ages 30 to 60. In rare cases, it is manifested to be triggered by a strenuous activity of the body.
15932	Cause of the condition esoinophilic gastroenteritis is still unknown.
15933	This condition often manifests as a result of some defects in metabolism especially in the reticuloendothelia system.
15934	The underlying cause of this condition remains unknown until now. Although different studies are now being done to investigate what really causes Ependymoblastoma.
15935	There is no known cause to this disease as of this time.
15936	Epicondylitis is caused by an overuse of the specific muscle which will result to swell and swell.
15937	Epidermodysplasia can be caused by virus (HPV). It can also be caused by an autosmal recessive gene inherited by an individual.
15938	Epidermoid carcicoma occur when mtutations triggered by the genes occur in a normal cell. As a result, the abnormality in the cell occurs and often manifests in the shape and behavior of the cell. The abnormal cell then endlessly reproduces. These abnormal cells usually form a tumor when not removed surgically will invade the neighboring vessels and lymphatic nodes and eventually spreads to other nearby sites. The cancer can then be spread to different locations throughout the body.
15939	The factors leading to the abnormal proliferation of the cells include heredity, developmental defect, a ruptured sebaceous glands that produce sebum (the oil that lubricates your skin and coats each hair shaft) and a damage to a hair follicle.
15940	Many stratified squamous epithelial tissues, such as the skin and oral mucosa, contain a complex BMZ. The BMZ is composed of many specialized components that combine to form anchoring complexes. At the superior aspect of the BMZ, keratin-containing intermediate filaments of the basal cell cytoskeleton insert on basal cell plasma membrane condensations termed hemidesmosomes. Anchoring filaments extend from the basal cell plasma membrane into the extracellular environment and span the lamina lucida, connecting hemidesmosomes with the lamina densa. At the most inferior aspect of the BMZ, type VII collagen-containing anchoring fibrils extend from the lamina densa into the papillary dermis, connecting the lamina densa to anchoring plaques, trapping interstitial collagen fibrils. Thus, the cutaneous BMZ connects the extensive basal cell cytoskeletal network with the abundant network of interstitial collagen fibrils in the dermis.
15941	The cause of this condition is traced from defects in genes for keratin 1 and 10. Keratin 1 defects are often associated with PS variants while keratin 10 defects are associated with NPS variants.
15942	Epididymitis condition is most commonly triggered by a secondary bacterial infection brought about by various underlying conditions. Infections of the urinary tract or UTI are often the most common cause of this condition. It can also be brought about by STDs, chlamydia, and gonorrhea. Other causes is surgery of genito-urinary area also including kidney and bladder problems, prostatectomy, or urinary catheterization.
15943	An injury to the head is often the cause of epidurial hematoma. Head injuries are often caused by an automobile or motorcycle accident, or even simply bumping the head.
15944	Epiglottitis is caused by the bacteria Haemophilus influenzae type B, as well as the Streptoccocus pneumoniae.
15945	In most of the cases reported, there is not a known direct cause. However in some very rare cases, the most frequent causes are stroke and/or brain tumor, head trauma usually from automobile accidents, wounds from gunshot, a severe sports accidents, falls and blows. Severe injuries often cause more severe cases which entails a greater risk of having eilepsy. Lead poisoning, and some substance abuse can be some of the cause like alcohol, severe case infection like meningitis, encephalitis that are viral in nature, lupus erythematosus, very rarely includes diphtheria, mumps, measles and others. Systemic illness, Injury and infection that may have affected the brain developing of the baby during pregnancy.
15947	THis disorder is caused by the abnormal activity of the neurons in the brain.
15948	Episcleritis is caused by inflammation of the epsiclera, which is due to stress, eye strains and other organ diseases.
15948	Episcleritis is caused by inflammation of the epsiclera, which is due to stress, eye strains and other organ diseases.
15949	Epispadias is caused by abnormalities during embryogenesis.
15950	Epstein barr virus monocleosis is occurs because of the Epstein-Barr virus infecting the B cells or the B-lymphocytes. The infection then produces atypical T cells or T-lymphocytes and a reactive lymphocytosis, which is commonly known as Downey bodies.
15951	This fear of horses condition can be caused by some past experiences associated with the horse, it can be a life-threatening experience that patients would never want to undergo ever again or it can also be stimulated with an experience of someone he or she knows. It can also be stimulated by movies. It is the minds automatic defense response to anything that it thinks would greatly harm him/her or anything that he feels he could loose his life.
15952	Erb's palsy is commonly caused by dystocia or an abnormal or difficulty during childbirth or during labour where the baby's head and neck are forcebly pulled toward the side simultaneous with the shoulders while passing through the vagina or the birth canal. Erb's palsy can also be caused by the excessive forceful pulling of the infant's shoulders especially during a vertex delivery where the head is first to come out or by great pressure applied on the raised arms of the baby while on a breech or feet first delivery.
15953	The cause of this disease cannot be directly identified as of now.
15954	This fear of work may occur as an auto defensive mechanism of a person who may have a rather unpleasant experience in the work place. It can be a thing of his past or by other people close to him. This condittion may have developed during childhood.
15955	Streptococcus pyogenes is the bacteria that causes Erysipelas. People who immune deficiency, diabetes, alcoholism, with impaired lymphatic drainage, untreated ulcers and fungal infection, elderly and infant are high risk to be infected with the bacteria.
15956	The disease is caused by Streptococcus bacteria.
15957	Erythema is a tropical disease, thus the proliferation of this once dreaded epidemic can be found in tropical countries. The disease is caused by the bacterium Mycobacterium leprosae, which thrives in warm and tropical weather. Once the bacterium finds a human host, it easily breaks into the skin destroying the skin's immune system and develops lesions.
15958	B19, a human parvovirus causes the infection. This is not similar as the parvovirus seen in cats and dogs, so you can't get the infection from the pets. Just like cold, parvovirus spreads from person to person, often through hand-to-hand contact and respiratory secretions. Before the rash appears, the illness is contagious within a week and once the rash appears, the person with the illness is no longer considered contagious but need not be isolated. +D132
15959	It is necessary to immediately stop or avoid the causative factor of this disease. It does not require any treatment, it well just clear up within 2 - 4 weeks. Anti-inflammatory drugs are useful to minimize or stop the inflammation process of the disease
15960	Erythema nodosum may happen in connection to another condition or by itself. Conditions related to the disorder include fungal diseases, cat scratch disease, sarcoidosis, strep throat, Behcel's disease, inflammatory bowel diseases, normal pregnancy, and some medications like estrogens and birth-control pills.
15961	Some people report mild itching or burning, especially in the groin area, even if erythrasma usually causes no symptoms. Corynebacterium minutissimum is a bacterium which causes erythrasma. Its usual appearance is a reddish-brown slightly scaly patch with sharp borders causing lesions occurring in moist areas such as armpit, groin, and skin folds to itch slightly.
15962	The Erythroderma is idiopathic cause or unknown cause but many physician said that it is caused by several skin diseases, such as psoriasis, contact dermatitis, and cutaneous lymphoma. Some medication can also caused erythroderma.
15963	In the case of a primary erythromelalgia, the condition is caused by an abnormal mutation of SCN9A or the voltage-gated sodium channel a-subunit gene.
15964	Erythromelalgia is commonly a secondary disorder; it means that it is one of the manifestations of another disorder. And its is also a primary cause due to degeneration and mutation of the patient's nerves.
15965	Erythroplakia, as of now, has an unknown cause. Researchers, however, presume the cause to be similar as that in the case of a squamous cell carcinoma which is mostly found in men who are around the ages of 65 to 74 and is commonly associated with the patients practice of smoking. Erythroplakia is most commonly found in the floor area of the mouth, the soft palate, and the tongue.
15966	Over exposure to the ultraviolet rays of the sun is known to be a cause of this disorder.
15967	Protoporphyria, erythropoietic, is caused by the lack of ferrochelatase enzyme in the cell. Exact reasons of this deficiency have not yet been determined.
15968	Escherichia coli infection is caused by the E.Coli group of bacteria, which comes from eating undercooked ground beef, drinking unhygienic water and unpasteurized milk, and working with cattle because healthy beef and dairy cattle may carry the bacteria inside their intestine.
15969	The esophageal atresia is caused by the abnormal development of the esophagus brought about by unhealthy pregnancy and poor fetal development especially during the fourth week of fetal development.
15970	Esophagus is a hollow tube composed of highly specialized layers which are an inner lining made up of thin flat cells (squamous cells), a layer below the inner lining that is mucus secreting glands (submucosa) and a thick band of muscle tissue. The cancer of the esophagus depends on the type of origin cells. The most common which rise in the flat squamous cell the line the esophagus is Squamous cell or epidermoid carcinoma, adenocarcinoma arises in the esophageal glandular tissue.
15971	Causes of the Esophageal disorders are commonly attributed abnormal development of the esophagus during fetal growth. It can also be attributed to some factors that may have impeded in the proper development of the esophagus.
15972	Esophageal diverticulum is caused by the following: motility disorders in the esophagus, lesions in the esophageal sphincter, as well as other underlying inflammations.
15973	This condition can be enherited by a person from a line of relatives with similar condition.
15975	There is no known exact cause for esophageal spasms but some possibilities include extremely hot or extremely cold foods and gastroesophageal disease (GERD) or heartburn.
15976	Esophageal stricture is linked with major diseases in the gastrointestinal tract. Among the main illnesses to which the disease is associated are dysfunctional lower esophageal sphincter, hiatal hernia, disordered motility and gastrointestinal reflux disease.
15977	In most cases, peptic ulcers are caused by the corkscrew-shaped bacterium Helicobacter pylori (H.pylori). the bacteria lives and multiplies within the mucous layer that covers and protects tissues that line the stomach and small intestine.
15978	The most common known factor affecting or resulting to Esophageal varices is an immediate increase in the pressure, applied directly or indirectly, of the veins of the esophagus which may impede in the normal flow of blood in the area causing it to become swollen.
15980	Esotropia is often attributed to a certain defect in the eye muscles making the different fixation of the patient's eye.
15981	Etiologic factors for essential hypertension are Liquorice intake, High sodium intake can also trigger high blood pressure. Insulin resistance, sleep apnea, age and genetics also cause elevation of blood pressure.
15982	Essential mixed cryoglobulinemia by an automimmune disorder and is as well associated with hepatitis C.
15983	Thrombocytopenia is cause by different factors like vitamin B12, deficiency leukemia, Decreased production of thrombopoietin, Sepsis, Dengue fever, immunological shortened platelet survival. Hereditary syndromes also trigger this disease like Congenital Amegakaryocytic Thrombocytopenia (CAMT), Thrombocytopenia absent radius syndrome, and Fanconi anemia, idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura (ITP), thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura, hemolytic-uremic syndrome, disseminated intravascular coagulation, paroxysmal nocturnal hemoglobinuria, antiphospholipid syndrome, systemic lupus erythematosus, post transfusion purpura, neonatal alloimmune thrombocytopenia (NAITP), HIV and medication induced thrombocytopenia like heparin and chemotherapy drugs.
15984	This disease is idiopathic or it has unknown cause, but some physician reported that essential thrombocytosis is a genetic disorder.
15985	Genetic mutation is half of the cases of essential tremor,which appear to occur usually referred as benign familial tremor. Other cause of essential tremor without known genetic mutation links to the problem occuring in some portions of brain circuits.
15986	Most common cause of this disease is an autosomal genes that is inherited in the family. A Neurological and physiological injury are also causes ethylmalonic aciduria.
15987	The cause of evan's disease is through autoimmune response of the body. The alteration of immune responds id not yet known.
15988	It is an unknown cause disease but it is commonly occurs in the family or what we called a genetic factor. It shows mutation of the bone cells that lead to increase production of immature and abnormal cells.
15989	Hyperhidrosis is caused by the stimulus sent to by the brain and triggered to the different parts of the body such as the head, armpits, hands and feet.
15990	There is no exact cause of exhibitionism. It can be linked with other ongoing psychological problems such as depression. Harmful substances may also help develop the disorder.
15991	The cause of this disease is either Exogenous, it means that the oil comes from the outside of the body, Such as inhaled cosmetic oil. While Endogenous, it comes from the body itself, like if the airway is obstructed the lipid macrophages will get in the disconnected spaces.
15992	Exopthalmus has different causes, Graves disease is the most common cause, tumor inside the eyes, eye trauma and swelling can also cause exopthalmus due to increase pressure inside the eyes.
15993	From the word itself it is cause by genetic mutation of a person, bone tumor also cause the disease.
15994	It is usually idiopathic cause or unknown cause. Some also said that it is cause by genetic mutation of the bone.
15995	It is commonly unknown cause, but some physician said that it is cause by over fatigue and stress, some also said that it is cause by head trauma and abrubt movement of the head. Aside from head trauma, injury of the middle ear especially the Eustachian tube also cause this disease.
15996	XDR TB is caused by improper anti-TB treatment via irregular intake of TB medications, recurring tuberculosis, as well as having contact with someone who has XDR-TB.
15997	The condition is caused by any type of headwear that puts pressure on the head. Headwear may include tight hats, headbands, helmets, and goggles. Experts still do no know why some people are more sensitive to this type of pressure compared to others.
15998	Causes of external otitis include persistent moisture in the ear from swimming, bathing, or living in a humid environment, exposure to an infectious organism from swimming in polluted water, skin breakage caused by scratching or rubbing the ear with a foreign object, and bacteria growth fostered by hair sprays or hair dyes.
16000	Extradural hematoma is caused by traumatic hemorrhage in the brain. Venous epidural bleeds occur due to the friction among brain tissues of different densities. A person who experiences a blow in one side of the head can most likely suffer from extradural hematoma.
16001	The main cause of the disease is the rapid correction of low sodium levels in the blood.
16002	The underlying cause of extrophy of the bladder is still unknown. However, among the most popular theory has suggested that it is mainly a result of the overdevelopment of the cloacal membrane. This is the temporary membrane that provides the pathway during the normal development of the fetus.
16003	Eye cancers are an effect of other cancers existing in the human body. Serious cancers such as breast cancer, liver cancer and prostate cancer usually cause eye cancers. There are other malignancies however, that originate from the eyes.
16004	Eye floaters generally occur because of age-related changes in the vitreous. The vitreous is the jelly-like substance that fills your eyeballs and helps them maintain their round shape. Millions of fine fibers are intertwined within the vitreous and said fibers are attached to the retina, the light-sensitive tissue that lines the back of your eyes.
16005	There is no known exact cause for eye melanoma. It is however, typically not inherited but along the years studies revealed that DNA plays a role in causing cells to become cancerous. Defects or changes in the DNA can cause genes to malfunction but as to how said changes cause the development of cancer, remains not understood.
16006	The cause of eye melanoma cancer is currently unknown. However, some scientists believe that the disease may result from a number of genetic factors, although no sufficient proof exists to support this theory.
16008	Eyelid cysts are caused by the formation of blocked fibers and oils in the eyelid. The exact causes on the formation of cysts remain unknown.
16009	There are several conditions associated with eyelid inflammation and these include seborrheic dermatitis or dandruff of the scalp and eyebrows, bacterial infection, malfunctioning oil glands in the eyelid, and rosacea, a skin condition characterized by facial redness. Among the less common symptoms are allergies and an infestation of lice on the eyelashes. The condition may also be caused by a combination of factors.
16010	Fabry disease is caused by a mutation in the genes that controls the production of the enzyme and causes the buildup of lipids in the kidneys, eyes, autonomic nervous system as well as the cardiovascular system.
16011	The cause of facet degeneration is another underlying illness, arthritis.
16012	Facial palsy or Bell's palsy is believed to be linked to swelling of the nerve in the area where it travels through the bines of the skull. Also related to the condition are diabetes, lyme diseases, and sarcoidosis.
16013	Among the identified common underlying causes of facial paralysis include Bell 's palsy, trauma, tumors, neurosarcoidosis, herpes zoster oticus, chronic and acute otitis media. About 80% of the facial paralysis is brought about by Bell's palsy.
16014	Faciocutaneoskeletal syndrome is an idiopathic, sporadic kind of syndrome.
16015	About 95% of facioscapulohumeral muscular dystrophy can be associated to the deletion of the important copies of the 3.2kb unit of the human genome. Disease usually occurs due to the translocation of the chromosomes.
16016	There is no exact cause for the syndrome but researchers believe that biological and psychological factors have roles in its development. Theories such as child abuse and history of frequent illnesses requiring hospitalization are also looked up.
16017	Among the leading causes of factor II deficiency includes vitamin K deficiency, liver diseases, bile duct obstructions as well as long-term use of antiobiotics and use of anticoagulant drugs that are known to prevent natural clotting of the blood.
16018	Factor V deficiency is very uncommon, and may be caused through inheritance of a defective gene, particularly Factor V gene. It can also be caused through acquiring antibody that hinders the normal function of Factor V. A Factor V inhibitor can also be obtained after delivery, after surgery, or with certain cancers and autoimmune diseases, or in patients that are being treated with a particular kind of fibrin glue, coming from an unknown source.
16019	Factor V Leiden mutation is caused by the alteration of a variant of factor V, wherein its Leiden aspect can't be inactivated by an activated Protein C. The disorder is commonly hereditary. If an individual inherits one copy of the defective gene, they are called heterozygous; a person who inherits two copies of the defective gene is known as homozygous. Homozygous individuals are at a higher risk of vein blood clots that can travel to their lungs.
16020	The disorder happens when an individual lacks Factor VII, which is a very significant protein responsible for clotting. When one bleeds, the human body initiates a sequence of activities aiding in blood clot, called coagulation cascade. If there is a deficiency in Factor VII the final result if this coagulation cascade become blood clot.
16021	The disorder is mainly an inherited deficiency of the Factor VIII gene. This gene partakes in the essential passageway of blood coagulation; defects in the gene cause the deficiency, which in turn leads to the symptoms of hemophilia.
16022	The deficiency is caused by a defective Factor X gene, passed on through families. Another cause is amyloidosis, which is a disorder wherein protein fibers can't dissolve tissue and organ deposits that affect its function.
16023	The deficiency is caused by mutations in coagulation Factor XI. There are several mutations present, and bleeding risks isn't always subjective to how severe the deficiency is. The deficiency also has 'autosomal dominant inheritance'.
16024	The deficiency is typically caused by mutations in Catalytic A subunit. There are more than forty various mutations identified, resulting to extreme bleeding diathesis. Other diseases, such as Henoch-Schonlein Purpura and Sickle Cell Disease, can also cause the deficiency.
16025	Fahr's disease appears to happen randomly for unidentified reasons. However, it has also been reported to be often familial, passed on as 'autosomal recessive' trait or 'autosomal dominant inheritance'. A number of experts believe that it can sometimes be the result of an unknown infection at pregnancy that affects the fetus' development.
16026	Any type of fainting may be caused by a sudden drop in blood pressure, side effects os certain medications, hyperventilation, drug or alcohol use, and low blood sugar.
16027	Flat feet are a common condition and is even normal among children. Infants and children do not have a longitudal arch since it develops in childhood and by adulthood. There are children though who suffer from painful flat feet and this condition is called tarsal condition. It is when two or more of the bones in the foot fuse together, limiting motion and often leading to a flat foot. Flat feet is often associated with pronation, a leaning inward of the ankle bones toward the center line.
16028	A fallen bladder is caused by the muscle straining especially when giving birth. Other activities that also causes muscle straining are lifting of heavy objects and during constipation. It can also be caused by deficiency of the hormone estrogen which keep the muscles strong. It has also be associated with aging women during their menopausal stage when supply of estrogen drops off.
16029	Fallot tetralogy is caused by four defects inside heart formations of young children and infants. This can be the result of problems during the fetal growth stage, which leads to a group of abnormalities: ventricular septal defect, pulmonary valve stenosis, overriding aorta, and right ventricular hypertrophy.
16030	Familial adenomatous polyposis is caused by the gene mutations of APC or adenomatous polyposis coli. It is also inherited in a 'dominant' manner, so that a patient has fifty percent chances of transmitting defective gene. APC gene mutations lead to non-functioning protein, which disrupts cell proliferation balance and death of cell.
16031	Familial amyloid polyneuropathy is a genetically-transmitted disease. That is, parents can pass it on to their sons as a single mutated gene is enough for its transmission.
16032	Familial emphysema is caused by a genetic defect that resulted to the lack of alpha antitripsyn enzyme in the lungs' alveoli.
16033	Symptoms of familial Mediterranean fever normally start when the patient is between 5 and 15 years old. Painful inflammation can be observed along the lining pf the chest or abdominal cavity, joints, or skin. High fevers, which peak between 12 and 24 hours, are usually experienced as well.
16034	A gene defect on chromosome 16 causes the condition. However, researchers are not certain as to how said defect causes the disease. It may be because people with a mutation in this gene don't make protein that inhibits the inflammatory response in certain parts of the body. Familial paroxysmal peritonitis is also inherited in an autosomal recessive trait.
16035	The symptoms of familial periodic paralysis includes difficulty in seeing and speaking, sensory or auditory auras, and headaches.
16036	Familial polyposis is brought about by a mutated gene. HOwever, there has been no definite explanation for the mutation.
16037	Fan death is thought to be caused by an electric fan left om overnight. Fan death is also thought to be caused by air conditioners and fans in cars, which is why some Koreans leave their car windows open a crack to avoid this unpleasant death, though not often enough, as evidenced by the surge in deaths caused by fans.
16038	Several causes of Fanconi syndrome may be hereditary or congenital also it can be acquired. The most usual cause is Cystinosis it usually seen in children though this disease can be possibly obtained later in life. Several accepted causes of Fanconi syndrome are as follows: Wilson's disease - inherited condition of copper metabolism Lowe Syndrome Tyrosinemia(Type I) Galactosemia Glycogen storage diseases Fructose intolerance Expired tetracyclines ingestion Tenofovir side effect
16039	There are different diseases known to cause Fanconi syndrome. They can be inherited or congenital as well as acquired. Cystinosis is the most known cause of Fanconi syndrome in children; it is possible, however, to acquire this disease later on in life. Other recognised causes of Fanconi's syndrome are Wilson's disease (a genetically inherited condition of copper metabolism), Lowe Syndrome, Tyrosinemia(Type I), glycogen storage diseases, fructose intolerance, galactosemia, ingesting expired tetracyclines, and as a side effect of tenofovir.
16042	Farmer's lung, otherwise referred to as hypersensitivity pneumonitis, happens when a person works in areas where organic dusts, molds, or fungus are highly present. This disease can also occur when humidifiers, air conditioners, and heating systems have substantial presence of fungus. Other times, exposure to specific types of bird droppings can result in farmer's lung.
16043	Farsightedness is a refractive error, which means that the cornea or lens of the eyes is not evenly and smoothly curved. The light is focused behind the retina instead of being precisely focused on the retina.
16044	Fasciculations are caused by a variety of reasons. They can be due to existing illnesses such as the Werdnig-Hoffman disease, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis and Kennedy disease. They can also be side effects of anticholinergic drugs such as Benadryl or sleeping medications and anti-motion sickness drugs. Stimulants can also cause fasciculations.
16045	The major cause of Fascioliasis is the intake of contaminated water or water plants. Other known risk factors include intake of raw liver from c goats, cows or sheep which are infected.
16046	An infectious agent called Proteinaceous Infectious Particle or PrP causes the disease. PrP is an abnormal isoform of normal 'prion protein' that all humans possess. A single PrP is enough to cause transformation of the normal prion proteins, and the chain reaction explains the gradual incubation period. PrP causes 'apoptosis' in the neural cells.
16047	The fatigue is an effect of an ongoing cancer development in one's body.
16048	Ingestion of too much calories causes the build up of fat in one's liver. When this extra fat isn't broken down and processed by the liver than it normally does, excessive fat accumulates, which in turn results to the condition.
16049	Favism is caused by the lack of G6PD enzymes in the red blood cells. Because of the deficiency of this enzyme, the body reacts violently to consumption of broad (fava beans).
16050	The cause of Fazio Londe syndrome is unknown, but gene mutations involved in the proper function of the motor neuron is believed to cause the disease. Genetic expression can either be an 'autosomal recessive' or 'autosomal dominant' type.
16053	Fecal impactions are caused by digestive problems, lack of fibers that help dissolve ingested food, and insufficient water in the body.
16054	Lack of anal sphincter control or reduced consciousness of the urge to move bowel is the main cause of fecal incontinence. Conditions that can cause fecal incontinence are constipation, diarrhea, muscle damage, nerve damage, the lack of ability of the rectum to accommodate, surgery, rectal cancer, muscle strength loss due to age, chronic laxative user. Other conditions include rectal prolapse, rectocele for women and hemorrhoids.
16054	Among the causes of fecal incontinence are chronic constipation or impacted stool in the rectum, severe diarrhea, injury to the anal muscles during childbirth among women, stress of unfamiliar environment, decreased awareness of sensation of bowel fullness, nerve or muscle damage, and emotional problems. Other causes include gynecological, prostate, or rectal surgery, severe hemorrhoids or rectal prolapse, colectomy or bowel surgery, and chronic laxative use.
16055	Feer disease is caused by immense exposure to mercury. Workers as well as miners in mercury deposits are the ones prone to acquiring the disease.
16056	The syndrome is identified as an 'autosomal dominant' disorder rooting from the heterozygous mutations of the MYCN gene. These mutations result in haploinsufficiency, as well as deletions of two whole genes.
16057	Feline spongiform encephalopathy is contracted via cat refuse. Cats (as well as other members of the cat family) that carry the disease are mostly detected to have genetic disorders thus they produce such disease-causing agent.
16058	The exact causes of Felty's syndrome are unknown; until now it is only associated with rheumatoid arthritis as well as functions of the bone marrow, but its specific origins have not yet been identified.
16059	Female carrier ALD is caused by a genetic mutation in the body's chromosomes, which causes dysfunctions in the adrenal glands.
16060	Female infertility can be caused by several factors including ovulation disorders, which account for 25 percent of infertile couples. An abnormal FSH and LH secretion, polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS), luteal phase defect, and premature ovarian failure are among the conditions falling under ovarian failure. Other causes of female infertility include damage to the fallopian tubes, endometriosis, cervical narrowing or blockage, and uterine causes. There are cases that the cause of infertility is not found. Studies state that it could be a combination of several minor factors in both partners.
16061	The disease is an autosomal dominant disorder with mutations that occurred in genes PTPN11, SOS1, RAF1 and KRAS.
16062	One possible cause of female pseudohermaphroditism is the intake of androgen, progestin, or anabolic steroid during the first trimester of pregnancy of a woman bearing a female fetus; the fetus can be masculinized. Androgen-producing tumors of an ovarian or adrenal origin is another cause that may lead to the masculinization of female fetus.
16063	Physical, hormonal, and psychosocial factors cause this condition among women. Arthritis, urinary or bowel difficulties, pelvic surgery, fatigue among others is the physical conditions that may cause the dysfunction. Lower estrogen level meanwhile is often cited as a hormonal factor causing said sexual dysfunction. Untreated anxiety or depression meanwhile can diminish sexual responsiveness.
16064	The condition can be a result of a genetic disorder affecting estrogen levels and the endocrine system. It can also occur due to physiological influences on one's behavior.
16065	As a pregnant mother drinks, alcohol enters the fetus by crossing the placenta. Since a fetus metabolizes alcohol more slowly than the adult do, the concentration of alcohol is higher in the fetus. It impairs nutrition for your baby's developing organs and tissues and can also damage brain cells which can lead to mental retardation. Prenatal alcohol consumption places the fetus at the highest risk for developing defects or even death especially during the first trimester of conception.
16066	The syndrome is mainly caused by diethylstilbestrol exposure in pregnant women. Diethylstilbestrol was found to cause several birth defects in female children born to pregnant women who took the drug. Sons born to exposed women have slightly increased risks of having scrotum abnormalities and reduced sperm counts.
16067	The disorder is an autosomal dominant defect.
16068	The main cause of the syndrome is phenytoin exposure of the fetus. The exposure to this drug leads to fetal abnormalities, particularly the skull and facial features.
16069	The syndrome is mainly caused by methyl mercury exposure of a developing fetus. Studies have shown that ingested methyl mercury is completely and readily absorbed through gastrointestinal tract; it is usually found complexed together with peptides, free cysteine, and proteins that contain amino acid. It's transported freely all through one's body, including the 'placenta' where a developing fetus absorbs it. This leads to subtle deficiencies of the fetus and symptoms of the syndrome.
16070	Pregnant women are highly susceptible to diseases during the first trimester. The three hypothesis on the pathogenesis of this condition include tissue organ, cellular and biochemical.
16071	Fetal warfarin syndrome is primarily caused by the exposure of a neonate to an anticoagulant warfarin or toxicity that arise from Coumadin ingestion or rodenticide superwarfarins exposure.
16073	There are many medical conditions that may present the symptoms of fever. These includes infections; inflammations; immunological diseases; tissue destruction occurring during hemolysis, surgery, infarction, cerebral hemorrhage; directly caused by the drug like lamictal, progesterone; cancers.
16074	Herpes labialis is a very common disease caused by infection of the mouth area with herpes simplex virus, most often type 1. by the age of 20, most Americans are infected with the type 1 virus.
16075	FG syndrome is caused by a genetic mutation of the long arm (q) of the chromosome X12-X21.
16076	There's no definitive cause that are fully understood but somehow they are found to be related to ovarian hormone levels and also related to the menstrual cycle and dietary conditions. In which when a women is undergoing menopause the condition subsides. Also it is lower of incidence in women who are taking birth pills possibly due to regulation of hormone in the body.
16077	The underlying cause of fibrodysplasia ossificans progressive is srill largely unknown. It is simply an autosomal dominant disorder that comes with the complete penetration but with some variable gene expressivity.
16078	There has been no specific causes linked to fibroma.
16079	As with most tumors, the causes of fibromastosis are not known.
16080	The cause of FMD still remains unknown, despite several speculations that relates it to some rare genetic conditions. Strokes and hypertensions may also be triggered by Fibromuscular dysplasia.
16081	To date, the cause of fibromyalgia is still not known, However, there are several causes that is believed to trigger such condition. This includes injury, sleep disturbances, infection, and autonomic nervous system abnormalities. Stress and hormonal chares can also contribute.
16082	Doctors cannot really pinpoint the cause of fibroids but according to research and clinical experiences, genetic alterations, hormones, and other chemicals or substances in the body are factors.
16083	The underlying cause of fibrosarcoma is still largely unknown, although it is believed that genetic mutation may have played a significant role. It has also been noted that fibrosarcoma may arise from preexisting lesions.
16084	Fibrosis is brought about by a previous injury or an inflammation that has been there for quite some time. In some cases though, no identifiable causes can be traced.
16085	Fibrous dysplasia usually develops before birth, which means in most cases it is congenital. This disease is normally linked with gene mutation that affects the cells that produce bones. No one really knows the exact cause of the mutation, however, it has been established that fibrous dysplasia is not an inherited condition.
16086	The cause of this infection is called human parvovirus B19. It spreads from person to person through respiratory secretions and hand to hand contact just like the common cold. It is contagious but once the rashes appear it is no longer considered contagious.
16087	The main cause of filariasis is the mosquito that is a carries of filarial bacteria. Bacteria are transmitted through mosquito bite and victim will usually fell no signs and symptoms until the bacteria have started to develop and abnormal swelling is already noticeable.
16088	The diseases caused by filovirus came from genetic mutations that occurred in a certain group of monkeys. The filovirus family was first discovered in the different parts of Africa where it once became an epidemic. `
16089	When the wrist is broken, it is often the radius that's affected and this type of fracture is called distal radius fracture or Colles' fracture. This usually occurs when the person falls forward onto an outstretched hand, during a bike accident, ski accident, or fall from a roof or ladder. A direct blow to the arm can also cause fractures of the ulna bone. Hand bones meanwhile often get broken during sports activities. Popular names of fractures include the ?boxer's fracture,? ?skier's thumb,? and the ?baseball finger.?
16091	Although the specific etiology has not been clearly elicited or polygenic dominant mode of inheritance is generally suspected since fissured tongue this condition is typically seen with an increased frequency in families that shared affected proband.
16092	A person may acquire fistulas at birth. Others meanwhile get the inflammation due to injuries or certain damages on the affected passageway.
16092	A person may acquire fistulas at birth. Others meanwhile get the inflammation due to injuries or certain damages on the affected passageway.
16093	FHC is known to be caused by an infection with C trachomatis or N gonorrhoeae.
16094	Since this is an extremely rare case, with only three reported incidence, there are currently no established basic pathophysiologiocal mechanisms or any genetic abnormalities for the underlying cause of Fitzsimmons-Guilbert syndrome.
16096	Flatfeet are a common condition and are even normal among children. Infants and children do not have a longitudal arch since it develops in childhood and by adulthood. There are children though who suffer from painful flat feet and this condition is called tarsal condition. It is when two or more of the bones in the foot fuse together, limiting motion and often leading to a flat foot. Flat feet is often associated with pronation, a leaning inward of the ankle bones toward the center line.
16097	There are bacteria in our colon that ferment carbohydrates if they aren't digested by the small intestine they produce most lower intestinal gas. Air unintentionally ingested when eating or drinking can sometimes be the cause of flatus development. Health conditions like diverticulitis or inflammatory bowel disease; constipation; and food intolerance.
16098	Since Flavimonas oryzihabitans is considered as an extremely rare disease, experts have not yet unraveled the underlying cause or causes that would link to the occurrence of Flavimonas oryzihabitans.
16099	Flea bites are caused by a parasitic insect named siphonaptera. It is one of the most common parasitic insects known to man, next to head lice. Fleas live on animal fur, such as dogs.
16100	Flesh eating bacteria is usually caused by one or more bacterial infection. This is usually an infection from a group of bacteria that produces toxins that actively destroys the skin, muscles and fat.
16102	The underlying etiology that causes the autonomic dysregulation and the structural abnormalities appearing to the associated with MVP remain unclear.
16103	Flourosis is caused by excessive amount of fluoride in the teeth.
16104	Three strains of viruses cause the flu namely influenza A, B, and C. A is responsible for the deadly influenza pandemics around the world, which strikes every 10 to 40 years. Type B meanwhile can lead to smaller and more localized outbreaks while Type C has never been connected with any large epidemic. Type C is also a stable virus compared to A and B since they are constantly changing and new strains can appears regularly.
16105	This medical condition may be brought about by other underlying complications such as orthopedic issues, peripheral neuropathy, mononeuropathy/radiculopathy, cerebral lesions, intoxications, myopathies, hereditary spastic paraparesis, and infections.
16106	Scientists believe that the main cause of focal dytonia is misfired neurons, which in turn, bring about the contractions.
16108	This rare disease is caused by blood vessel malformations. The blood vessels affected are responsible for supplying the spinal cord. Because of problems and insufficiency in blood flow to one's spinal cord, muscle problems occur.
16109	Foix-Chavany-Marie Syndrome is most commonly caused by stroke, head trauma, brain infection, malformation, and degenerative disorder. In instances of a slower progression of Foix-Chavany-Marie syndrome, such was observed to be associated with chronic herpes simplex encephalitis.
16110	Folate deficiency is caused by poor dietary intake of folic acid. It can also be due to abusive exposure to ultraviolet rays.
16111	Also called folic acid, folate is necessary for red blood cell formation and growth. Sources of folate include green leafy vegetables and liver. Medications such as phenytoin (Dilantin) interfere with the absorption of folate. Poor dietary intake of folic acid, malabsorption diseases such as celiac disease (sprue), and certain medications cause this type of anemia. Among pregnant women, a relative deficiency due to increased need for folic acid may occur during the third trimester.
16112	Specific causes of follicular lymphoma are still unknown. However, translocation is mainly associated with the development of this condition. When translocation between one's chromosome fourteen and eighteen occurs, the bcl2 gene experiences an overexpression. An overexpression of the bcl2gene is an identified cause of apoptosis (or blockage), or programmed cell death. Like cancer, it is not infectious neither communicable as a disease.
16113	Follicles that are damaged can be invaded by the viruses, bacteria, fungi which can lead to infections of the follicles (folliculitis). Most common cause are friction from shaving or tight clothing, dermatitis or acne, trauma like abrasions or surgical wounds, excessive perspiration and common among construction or oil workers are exposure to coal tar and creosote.
16114	PKU is an autosomal recessive disorder that affects the genetic code that controls the PAH enzyme. Because of this defect, the PAH enzyme is dramatically produced in abnormal levels causing problems with the brain's functioning.
16115	The food allergy is primarily cause by the malfunctioning of the immune system, causing it to react as it identifies food as a threat to the body, and produces antibodies. This signals the body to release histamine and other chemicals in o the bloodstream, which are partly the reason for the allergic reactions. Among the identified food that triggers allergies include peanuts, eggs, fish, tree nuts and shellfish.
16117	Food poisoning is caused by strains and viruses that have contaminated a certain dish. This may be because the food is already spoiled or not cooked properly. Among the common strains that bring about food poisoning is Clostridium botulinum, which is present in improperly preserved canned food, as well as E. coli and salmonella which can be found in raw food such as sushi.
16118	Disease causing bacteria such as salmonella and E. coli are the main sources of food-borne illnesses. Salmonella thrives in raw food such as sushi, while E. coli and Staphyloccocus come from unpasteurized milk. Spoiled food also causes food-borne illnesses.
16119	The condition is caused by paralysis or weakness of the muscles below the knee involved in lifting the front part of the foot. The underlying causes meanwhile can be varied. Specific causes include muscle or nerve damage, muscle or nerve disorders, central nervous system disorders, and drug reaction.
16120	Foot ulcers are an effect of diabetes.
16121	Forbes Disease is inherited, this is of Autosomal recessive inheritance and patients are frequent in Israel.
16122	There might be a generic link as to the cause of Fordyce spots for it is still unknown. Hereditary disorder is the main cause of fordyce's condition in 30-40% cases. The risk factors and the common causes of Fordyce condition include family history, viral infection and the overgrowth of sebaceous glands.
16124	Most exposures to formaldehyde can be through ingestion, inhalation, or through eye and skin contact. Formaldehyde is well absorbed by the gastrointestinal tract, the lungs, and the skin. Secondary contamination is possible in cases wherein one is exposed to another person's skin or clothing which is already contaminated with formaldehyde solution. Aspartame can also cause formaldehyde poisoning which can damage body organs (liver, kidney, etc.) and tissues.
16125	Fountain syndrome is genetic. If a person receives two abnormal genes for one and the same trait from each parent, he will develop a recessive genetic disorder.
16126	Exact causes of Fox-Fordyce disease is yet unknown. This problem often breaks out because of extreme heat, humidity, stress, and friction. As sweat is trapped apocrine sweat ducts burst and leak. This leads to inflammation and consequent itching. Other causes may be related to hormonal and emotional levels of a person.
16127	Greenstick fractures often occur when a child falls while playing or engaged in physical or sports activities. Most likely to be harmed are the arm bones because of the instinct to throw out arms when falling.
16128	Growth plate fractures are often caused by a fall or a blow to the limb. Overusing a certain part of the body such as undergoing sports training can also cause injury to the growth plates. Obesity can also lead to overuse-related growth plate fractures particularly in the hip area. Competitive sports such as football, basketball or gymnastic also account for a third of all growth plate injuries. Recreational activities such as biking, sledding, skiing, and skateboarding meanwhile account for 20 percent of growth plate injuries.
16129	Repetitive application of force causes stress fractures. There are two types of stress fractures namely fatigue fractures and insufficiency fractures. The former often occur during high-impact activities such as running and jumping but can also result from prolonged activities such as hiking or walking. The latter meanwhile occurs under the stress of routine activity.
16130	Tremendous force acted upon the thigh bone causes femur fracture. Car accidents and falling from high places may cause damage to the thigh bone. Osteoporosis, a dreaded bone disease, can also cause femur fracture. Other causes for broken thigh bone are tumors.
16131	This condition is genetic. They are caused by gene changes in actually the same gene. This specific gene is called the FMR1 gene. Fragile X can be passed on in the family line.
16132	Frmabesia is caused by bacteria under the family of spirochete. Another known spirochete is known to be the cause of syphilis.
16133	Exact causes are unknown. Some possible causes most especially of the symptoms mentioned, are cataracts, growth retardation, light hair, low birth weight, premature birth, and small lower jaw.
16134	Fraser Syndrome is most likely autosomal-recessive since an unusual number of infants are born to consanguineous parents. IT has a recurrence risk of 25 percent among family siblings.
16135	A defect in the body's genes, specifically the gene FMR1 is the cause of this condition. Whenever a person's FMR1 is defective he (or she) either suffers from FRAXA syndrome or becomes a carrier. This means, FRAXA syndrome may be passed down to the next generation.
16136	Freeman-Sheldon syndrome can be inherited. It is a genetic trait which is autosomal dominant. But there are random cases of this condition, which have no linked to family medical histories whatsoever.
16137	This condition may result as one of the side effects of having parotid gland surgery or any injury in the area. The parotid gland manufactures saliva. There is a connection between the Mandibular nerve and sweat glands of one's scallop and parotid gland. When there is a problem with severance and inappropriate regeneration "Gustatory Sweating" may result in stead of normal salivatory response.
16138	Friedreich's ataxia is inherited. It is a rare type of ataxia which is most common among its type. It affects 1 in every 50,000 people in the U.S.
16139	The causes for frigidity may be situational or hormone induced. Situational frigidity is caused by lack of proper communication with one's partner when it comes to sexually-related issues. It can also be due to traumatic sexual experiences in the past as well as poor diet. Aging persons also lose sexual interest.
16140	Froelich's syndrome is said to result from damage towards the hypothalamus. Tumors in the hypothalamus may cause an increase in appetite and a decreased gonadotropin secretion.
16141	Frontal lobe seizures can result from abnormalities in the frontal lobes such as tumors, vascular malformations or traumatic injuries. In most cases though, the cause of frontal lobe epilepsy remains unknown.
16142	Frontal lobe seizures can result from abnormalities in the frontal lobes such as tumors, vascular malformations or traumatic injuries. In most cases though, the cause of frontal lobe epilepsy remains unknown.
16143	Frontotemporal dementia is caused by the degeneration of the frontal lobe that extends to the temporal lobe. There are different pathologies associated with FTD. Genetics have also revealed two dominant mutations in individuals with FTD.
16143	In most cases, frontotemporal dementia is caused by genetic, specifically linked to certain chromosomes. However, it is surprising to know that at least 50% of patients with dementia don't have any family history of the disease. A genetic component is at work in some subtypes of frontotemporal dementia. Three specific chromosomes have been linked to different varieties of the disorder. But at least half the people with frontotemporal dementia have no family history of dementia.
16145	Frostbite develops as a consequence of exposure to extremely low temperatures, particularly at temperatures lower than freezing point. When the body loses heat, frostbite may occur. Various other factors, including cold air temperature, moisture, and wind speed, also affect the rate with which heat leaves the body. Alcohol abuse, along with psychiatric illness, fatigue, wound infections, diabetes, atherosclerosis, as well as previous injuries resulting from low temperatures, are also major risk factors of frostbite.
16146	Doctors do not yet know the precise cause of frozen shoulder. It can arise after an injury to your shoulder or prolonged immobilization of your shoulder, such as after surgery or an arm fracture.
16147	The liver enzyme deficient in fructose intolerance is aldolase-B which is responsible for converting fructose-1-phospate to glyceraldehydes and DHAP. When there is a deficiency in aldolase-B fructose cannot be metabolized any further and therefore traps phosphates. If phosphates are not released, thus stunting the process of forming glucose and causing hypoglycemia in the individual.
16148	Essential fructosuria is caused by a hepatic fructokinase deficiency. Without this enzyme, fructose is not further broken down into glucose which the body can use. The unmetabolized fructose remains intact and excreted through urine.
16149	Episodes of dissociative fugue are often linked with very stressful events. Traumatic experiences such a war, or natural disasters, seem to raise the incidence of the disorder. Other, more personal types of stress might also result to the unplanned travel and amnesia characteristic of dissociative fugue.
16150	Common causes for acute liver failure are paracetamol (acetaminophen) overdose, idiosyncratic reaction to medication (like tetracycline, troglitazone), excessive alcohol intake (severe alcoholic hepatitis), viral hepatitis (hepatitis A or B - it is extremely uncommon in hepatitis C), acute fatty liver of pregnancy, and idiopathic (without an obvious cause).
16152	Fungi are microscopic organisms that don't require sunlight to survive. Some fungi have beneficial uses, while others lead to illness and infection. Nail fungal infections are usually caused by a fungus that belongs to a group of fungi called dermatophytes. But yeasts and molds also can be the cause of nail fungal infections.
16153	This type of meningitis is caused by a certain kind of fungus. This fungus can be contracted via a prior infection that took place in the past.
16154	The causes for this condition can be due to a genetic defect, the onset of Marfan' syndrome, and rickets.
16155	G6PD deficiency is a genetic defect on the X chromosome.
16156	A galactocele can occur postpartum or when there is an infection during lactation. The lactiferous ducts found in a woman's breast become obstructed and these ducts become distended with produced milk as well as epithelial cells.
16157	This is a congenital disease. This disorder is caused by a deficiency in galactokinase, which is one of the three enzymes found in the Leloir pathway which converts galactose to glucose.
16158	There are several identified causes of Galactorrhea. It can be brought about by endocrine disorders, hormone imbalance, excessive stress, and even adverse effects of some known medicines. The local cause of Galactorrhea has been linked to excessive stimulation of the nipples. The drugs that have been identified as possibly eliciting an adverse effect such as Galactorrhea are antipsychotic drugs, methyldopa, birth control pills, H2 receptor anatagonist and opiates. Some foods have been identified to cause Galactorrhea as well like licorice. Endocrine disorders such as pituitary adenomas (more commonly as prolactinomas) which causes an overproduction of the hormone prolactin, responsible for milk formation, has also been known to cause Galactorrhea.
16159	Galactose-1-phosphate uridyltransferase deficiency is caused by a deficiency of the enzyme GALT responsible for the conversion of galactose to glucose in the body.
16160	Lactose found in food especially in dairy products is broken down by digestive enzymes into glucose and galactose. In individuals with galactosemia, galactose cannot be metabolized due to severe lack of enzymes thus leading to the toxic build up of galactose in the blood.
16161	Gallbladder disease is caused by conditions which can either slow down or obstruct the flow of bile out of the gallbladder, a sac located beneath the liver that stores and concentrates liver-produced bile. The gallbladder becomes dysfunctional when the liver produces unhealthy bile. Gallbladder disease comes in two forms, namely: cholecystitis, which pertains to gallbladder inflammation; and cholelithiasis, which pertains to the formation of gallstones.
16162	The specific cause of gallbladder cancer is currently not known. However, it is believed that malignant tumors may develop in the biliary tract as a result of exposure to toxins that are routinely digested by the liver. These potentially damaging toxins are normally released into the bile for excretion, but if the bile eliminates these toxins more slowly than usual, it increases the exposure of healthy cells to these dangerous substances.
16163	The exact cause of Galloway Mowat syndrome has yet to be identified but certain mutations concerning podocyte proteins have been studied to be the cause for the disease. Podocyte proteins include include alpha-actinin 4, podocin, and nephrin have been associated with nephritic syndrome and proteinuria.
16165	These gangliogliomas are particularly known to manifest itself in the temporal lobe of the human brain. The temporal lobes, where gangliogliomas are regularly found, are found on the sides of the brain, and are primarily involved not only in auditory processing but also speech and vision. However, these gangliogliomas may easily appear anywhere in the brain and the spinal cord. When situated in the brain, gangliogliomas are usually associated with the occurrence of seizures among those who suffer from the disease.
16166	The exact cause of ganglion cysts is still unknown. It studied to be cause by overuse of a specific joint, which results in the degeneration of the surrounding fibrous tissue and the development of a cystic structure. The cyst contains clear fluid like the synovial fluid. It has usually seen around the wrist joint, especially at the scapho-lunate joint, which accounts for 80% of all ganglion cysts.
16167	It is usually the result of critically insufficient blood supply and is often associated with diabetes, and long-term smoking. This condition is often common in the lower extremities.
16168	Ganser syndrome is caused by other underlying mental illnesses such as schizophrenia. Alcohol and substance abuse can also trigger the disease.
16169	This disease is characterized by autosomal dominance inheritance, which means that it is inheritable. It is usual that if one parent (of the person suffering from the disease) had suffered or is also suffering from the Gardner's syndrome, the child can acquire that too. Because it is inherited through autosomal dominance, each child of an affected parent, regardless of gender, has an equal chance of inheriting and suffering from the complications of Gardner's syndrome disease.
16171	Swallowed air Breakdown of undigested food Foods that cause gas in the digestive tract: sugars (raffinose, lactose, fructose and sorbitol), starches, fiber
16172	A person may unknowingly swallow air when he is nervous, eats too fast, chews gum or drinks through a straw. Some of that air finds its way into the lower digestive tract. But most lower intestinal gas is produced when bacteria in the colon ferment carbohydrates that aren't digested in the small intestine.
16173	The cause of gastric cancer is not entirely known. However, it is closely associated with an infection of a bacterium known as Helicobacter pylori. These bacteria proliferate deep within the mucous layer that coats the lining of the stomach, thus causing a chronic infection that may progress to gastric cancer. H. pylori transmission is not currently understood, although it is believed to be spread among humans by drinking contaminated water. In addition, gastric cancer has also been linked to the stomach's exposure to certain nitrates and nitrites, particularly preservatives in cured meats. When combined with nitrogen-containing substances in the stomach, these chemicals produce N-nitroso compounds, which are actually carcinogens that are known to cause gastric cancer. In addition, drinking alcohol and smoking tobacco may also trigger gastric cancer. Both tobacco and alcohol irritate the lining of the stomach, which may lead to development of cancerous tissue.
16174	Gastric dumping syndrome is likely to happen in patients who have had stomach surgery, including gastrectomy or a gastric bypass surgery, facilitating the stomach's rapid emptying. This syndrome may also manifest due to complications due to cholecystectomy and esophagectomy. Patients suffering from Zollinger-Ellison syndrome and Ehlers- Danlos syndrome have increased likelihood of contracting Gastric dumping syndrome.
16175	In dumping syndrome, food and juices from the stomach move to the small intestine in an unregulated, abnormally fast manner. This accelerated process is most often related to changes in the stomach associated with surgery.
16176	The minor stomach ulcers are caused by intake of cortisone drugs such as aspirin and steroids, imbalance of enzymatic juices such as pepsin and other gastric acids.
16178	Here are the following known causes and factors of gastritis: Bacterial infection, fungal infection, parasitic infection, bile reflux, NSAIDs, cigarette smoke, autoimmune disorder, excessive alcohol consumption, excessive caffeine consumption, certain allergens, certain types of other conditions, stomach injury, stress and eating disorders such as 'bulimia'.
16179	The inflammation caused most often by infection with the certain viruses, less often by bacteria or their toxins, parasites, or adverse reaction to something in the diet or medication. Many different bacteria can cause gastroenteritis including, Salmonella, Shigella, Staphylococcus, Campylobacter jejuni, Clostridium, Escherichia coli, Yersinia etc. Some sources of the infection are improperly prepared food, reheated meal dishes, seafood, dairy, and other bakery products.
16180	This rare condition is caused by eosinophilic infiltration into the gastrointestinal tract. While eosinophil is a normal defense mechanism in the gastrointestinal tract, what has been described as a deviant pathogenic response triggered by the disease results in the said infiltration of eosinophil in deeper gastrointestinal tract tissues.
16181	The disease is caused by the bacterium Bacillus anthracis. Unlike other forms of the disease, gastrointestinal anthrax is contracted when one consumes infected meat.
16183	The causes of gastrointestinal bleeding are determined depending on where the hemorrhage is situated. Upper gastrointestinal bleeding is caused by a swollen or infected pharynx, while lower gastrointestinal bleeding occurs in the rectal area.
16184	Small tumors are generally benign, especially when cell division rate is slow, but large tumor disseminate to the liver, omentum and peritoneal cavity. They unusually occur in other abdominal organs.
16185	The tumors are caused by genetic mutations in the body.
16186	The most important nerve in the body which is the vagus nerve instructs the muscles in the stomach to contract in peristaltic waves and when the contractions slows down or completely stops the food does not move out of the stomach into the duodenum as it normally would. The destruction of the vagus nerve is the main cause of gastroparesis which can be a result of several factors which are diabetes, surgery, medications, cancer treatments and other disorders like anorexia and bulimia.
16186	Chronic gastroparesis is usually due to autonomic neuropathy. This may happen in people with type 1 diabetes or type 2 diabetes. The vagus nerve becomes destroyed by years of high blood glucose, resulting in gastroparesis.
16191	Geleophysic dwarfism manifests through the appeareance of abnormally limbs-people with Geleophysic dwarfism usually have short hands and feet. Moreover, delayed maturation of the bones and growth retardation further reinforce the creation of the shortness of stature of a person with Geleophysic dwarfism. Usually, these physical structural deformities are further accompanied by mild facial abnormalities. While inheritance from non-sex determining genes or autosomal dominant inheritance of the disorder has not been ruled out, the majority of cases of Geleophysic dwarfism appear to have occurred randomly. Should Geleophysic dwarfism be autosomal dominant-inherited, this means that the presence of even only one gene may cause a child to suffer from the disorder. Nonetheless, its appearance is usually sporadic in a given generation, and do not imply other primary causes that may point to a particular cause and predictability. Aside from Geleophysic dysplasia, disease databases register Acromicric dysplasia and Focal mucopolysaccharidosis as being other names for the disease.
16192	While the causes of Gelineau disease have yet to be determined, studies show that genetic conditions, like variations in HLA genes (otherwise known as Chromosome 6) are associated with an increased risk of suffering from the disorder.
16193	Gender identity disorder is a mental illness caused by variety of reasons: one's genetic makeup may have led to produce imbalanced androgen/testosterone hormones that affect the brain functions, or he/she could have suffered an accident which affected the brain. Others meanwhile are a result of drug abuse.
16194	As with many mental health conditions, what causes generalized anxiety disorder isn't fully known or understood. Researchers believe that it may involve naturally occurring chemicals in the brain called neurotransmitters, like serotonin and norepinephrine.
16196	Two types of herpes simplex virus infections cause genital herpes. These are HSV type 1 and HSV type 2.
16197	The cancers are caused by infection of the human papilloma virus (HPV) in the body.
16198	Caused by some sub-types of human papillomavirus (HPV). Genital warts occur in clusters and can be very tiny or can spread into large masses in the genital or penis area. For female they occur on the outside and inside of the vagina, on the opening (cervix) to the womb (uterus), or around the anus.
16200	This fear of knee is created by our unconscious mind. It was created as a shield device for the people who are suffering from this disorder. The causes of this phobia can come from an event that links to the knees or it can be a trauma emotionally. It can also be from anxieties attacks.
16201	Geographic tongue is not caused by infection or other kinds of disorders. This is not a long-term illness and healthy people can acquire this also.
16202	GERD results from the esophagus being angled in a way that in unable to prevent enzymes, duodenal bile, and stomach acid from travelling back. This causes inflammation of the sensitive tissues of the esophagus. Another cause is too little stomach acid, which is necessary to trigger the opening of intestinal valves. With too little stomach acid, the stomach is unable to empty its contents into the intestines, causing these contents to be pushed back into the esophagus.
16203	The exact causes of the disease are unknown, but studies link the condition as an autosomal dominant disorder.
16204	The disease is brought about by Rubella virus, a togavirus that is enveloped and has a single-stranded RNA genome.
16205	The disease is acquired where in the virus is transmitted to one person and the other. It can be transmitted thru coughing or sneezing or direct contact. The disease can also be transferred from pregnant woman to the fetus.
16206	One of the causes of this disorder is the use of the trimethadione, an anticonvulsant drug which is being prescribed to those pregnant women who have epileptic seizures. The side effect that might be experienced when taking this drug is the malformation of the fetus and other physical abnormalities.
16209	GSS is caused by prions, pathogenic proteins that can resist proteases. It is a familial syndrome that shows mutations in the prion protein genes of affected persons.
16211	The cause for Pemphigoid Gestationis is still unknown. But researchers belief that it maybe the antibodies whose job is to protect the placenta became confused and they begin multiply in numbers. This antibodies attacks the protein that binds the skins outer layer causing it to lift up and creates blisters.
16212	For the persistent gestational trophoblastic disease, the cause is the not having the tumor removed which is located deeply into the mascular wall of the uterus from the first surgery where the mole is scraped out. In the invasive mole, the cause is the scraping itself to remove it in the uterus completely. The Choriocarcinoma develops from the complete hydatidiform mole.
16213	The cause of this illness is genetically. If both of the parents of a child will have one defective gene which is located on an autosome, the child may have the giant axonal neuropathy disorder or he may not be affected with this disorder.
16215	The exact cause of Castleman's Disease is not known, though some researchers speculate that increased production of interleukin-6 (IL-6) may be involved in the development of Castleman's Disease.
16216	Conjunctivitis can be transmitted from people who already have. It is very contagious but some are not.
16217	Giant platelet syndrome is an inherited autosomal recessive defect. The disorder can be found in the short arm (p) of chromosome 17.
16218	Giardia parasites can take on two forms: an active form that lives in the intestine of an infected animal or human and an inactive cyst form that can survive for months in the environment. When these cysts are ingested, their hard shells break down in the stomach, releasing the parasites. The parasites then attach to the wall of the small intestine, eventually reproducing themselves millions of times and damaging the intestinal wall.
16219	Giardia lamblia can be contracted from infected persons. It can also be brought about by poor hygiene and drinking contaminated water.
16220	Giardiasis is caused by contamination, when the organism transfers from fecal matter of an animal and makes it way to food or water. Travelers frequenting wildlife areas, particularly, possess high risk as well as those who are frequently in day care facilities. Cattle, horse, dogs, beavers, and cats are primary hosts for the organism.
16221	Gigantism is caused by a rare occurrence of a pituitary tumor, wherein a person produces extreme amounts of prepubertal growth hormones. Other underlying medical conditions may also cause gigantism, such as McCune-Albright syndrome (MAS), Carney complex, multiple endocrine neoplasia (MEN) type-1, or neurofibromatosis.
16222	Although the cause of Gilbert's syndrome remains unknown, it is believed that the main cause is hereditary. Persons with the disease are born with an abnormal gene which causes lower levels of the enzymes.
16223	The environment and genetics play a significant role in the cause of Gilles de la Tourette's syndrome, although the exact cause remains to be unknown. And despite the fact that it is known to be inherited for a majority of the cases, the exact gene responsible for causing the disorder is also unknown.
16224	Plaque is the primary cause for gingivitis; it is a sticky yet invisible film that forms in the areas between the teeth and gums. The plaque results when the sugars and starches in food combine with the normal mouth bacteria. The bacteria in the plaque contain microscopic toxins and foreign chemicals, causing the inflammation in the gum areas around teeth. If plaque stays on teeth for two days or more, they solidify and turn into tartar.
16225	Gingivostomatitis is caused by the Herpes Simplex Virus 1. The disease is a combination of stomatitis and gingivitis.
16226	The cause of Gitelman syndrome is genetic - a mutation in the SLC12A3 gene that disturbs the proper functioning of sodium-chloride co-transporter or NCCT.
16227	It is linked to the mutations in the SLC12A3 gene resulting to the loss of function of thiazide sensitive sodium chloride co-transported or NCCT. It is also said to be an autosomal recessive disorder which is usually inherited.
16228	The disease is caused by the Burkolderia mallei bacterium.
16229	Glandular fever is caused by the Epstein-Barr virus, which thrive in the saliva. This disease is common among adolescents since it can be contracted via kissing.
16230	Glanzmann's thrombasthenia is hereditary and has an autosomal recessive nature. It may also present itself as the result of an autoimmune disorder.
16231	Glaucoma has been also called "sneak thief of sight" because the loss of visual field often occurs gradually over a long time and may only be recognized when it is already quite advanced. Once lost, this damaged visual field can never recover. Worldwide, it is the second leading cause of blindness. Glaucoma affects one in two hundred people aged fifty and younger, and one in ten over the age of eighty.
16232	The main cause of glioblastoma is unknown, although some risk factors have been associated with the condition. Research has shown that certain associated gene variants for a decreased risk in asthma may increase the risk of glioblastoma.
16233	Glioblastoma multiforme is more prevalent in males, but the reason is still unknown. The condition is rather random in nature, and is not associated with any genetic predisposition.
16234	The causes of glioma are unknown, but environmental factors may contribute to a person's risk levels. These include exposure to radiation, certain chemicals, and food.
16235	The causes of gliomatosis cerebri remain unknown.
16236	Genetic structure is often the cause of the clinical condition. It is usually caused by mutated or missing genes that result in abnormal cells. These abnormal cells eventually will form tumor when they multiply. It is usually hereditary.
16237	Glomerular diseases can be due to autoimmune deficiencies in a person's genetic structure. They can also be caused by other underlying diseases such as diabetes.
16238	Although it is known that the disease is related to a problem within the body's immune system, the exact cause is unknown. However, there are certain diseases that are associated with glomerulonephritis, and these include post-streptococcal GN, membranoproliferative GN I and II, Goodpasture syndrome, IgA nephropathy, focal segmental glomerulosclerosis, lupus nephritis, and rapidly progressive glomerulonephritis.
16239	Various types of kidney conditions may cause glomerulosclerosis in both adults and children. Diabetes is also another cause for the disease.
16240	The inflammation is caused by bacterial and viral infections. Poor oral hygiene may cause the swelling, as well as deficiency of B vitamins. Tongue piercings and allergic reactions also contribute to the disease.
16241	Causes of glossodynia include depression or chronic anxiety, nutritional deficiencies, menopause, type 2 diabetes, damaged nerves due to tooth extraction, or oral disorders such as dry mouth or thrush. It is also associated with other conditions such as allergies, hormone or immune system changes. Tobacco use may also trigger glossodynia. The burning sensation felt is a result of sodium laurel sulfate, a foaming agent.
16242	Glossophobia may be caused by trauma from previous experiences, certain beliefs formed during childhood about speaking and sometimes has something to do with failure, or a gradual avoidance of public speaking until it builds up to glossophobia.
16243	The exact cause of glucagonoma is unknown, but may be linked to genetics. Those whose family history includes multiple endocrine neoplasia type 1 are at risk.
16244	The lack of the glucocerebrosidase enzyme results to harmful substances to build up in the liver, spleen, bones, and bone marrow. The substances hinder cells and organs from working properly.
16245	Mutations in the glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase cause the disease. The disease affects certain ethnic groups, and is more common in black males in the United States, affecting about 13% of the population. Some black women are also affected by the disease, but this is dependent on their genetic make-up. Those of Middle Eastern origin, particularly the Kurds, and Sepharic Jewish origin are more at risk as well.
16246	Glucose-galactose malabsorption is autosomal recessive in nature. Mutations in the SLC5A1 gene, which is responsible for the production of glucose and sodium cotransporter called SGLT1, is responsible for causing the disease.
16247	The cause of the condition is due to a slight malfunction in the Eustachian tube. When the tube becomes narrow, the balance of air and fluid may be disrupted, resulting to a vacuum in the middle ear. This causes the pain and hearing difficulties.
16249	The exact cause of celiac disease is not known, but it's often inherited. If someone in the person's immediate family has it, chances are 5 percent to 15 percent that the person may have it as well. It can happen at any age, although problems don't appear until gluten is introduced into the diet. Many times, for unclear reasons, the disease occurs after some form of trauma: an infection, a physical injury, the stress of pregnancy, severe stress or surgery.
16250	The cause of glycogen storage disease is genetic. A child will have the condition if both parents have a defected gene. Both parents carrying the defective gene may mean: a 25% chance the child will be diagnosed with GSD; a 50% chance that their child will be a carrier, and a 25% chance that the child will have normal genes and not inherit the disease.
16251	In order to prevent hypoglycemia, treatment must include regular feeding of glucose and start products. The dietary carbohydrate must equivalent the body's glucose production rate in 24 hours. Ideally the diet should be composed of 10-15% protein, 20-25% fat, and 65-70% carbohydrate. One-thirds of the carbohydrates should be supplied at nighttime so that patients do not go over 4 hours without any carbohydrates. Other forms of sugars, such as fructose and galactose, must be avoided.
16252	The disease, the same with glycogen storage diseases types 1 to 5, are caused by its autosomal recessive nature. However, the transmission mode of type 7 remains unknown.
16253	The disease is caused by its autosomal recessive nature.
16254	Glycogen storage disease type V is hereditary and autosomal recessive in nature. Both parents of the patients must be carriers in order to inherit the disease.
16255	The condition is an inherited autosomal recessive disease. Both parents of the patient must be carriers in order to inherit the disease.
16256	Splicing defects, frameshift mutations, and missense are present in the gene encoding of the M subunit of PFK. The disease is autosomal recessive in nature.
16257	Glycosuria is said to be caused by untreated diabetes mellitus (Provan, D., and Provan A. 2005. Oxford Handbook of Clinical and Laboratory Investigation, p. 172)
16258	The causes of goitre may be serious or not. They include iodine deficiency, Graves' disease, inborn errors, acute or chronic thyroiditis, thyroid cancer, Hashimoto's thyroiditis, multinodular goiter, pregnancy, inflammation, or as a side effect of pharmacological therapy.
16259	Causes of Goldenhar syndrome remain unknown, and it is also doubted that it may have something to do with the mother's actions while pregnant. Accounts of familial patterns are present however, and certain cases suggest that an exposure to dioxin prior to or during pregnancy may have caused the condition. More often than not, Goldenhar syndrome occurs randomly.
16260	Many activities can lead to golfer's elbow, including: Golf, where gripping or swinging the clubs incorrectly can take a toll on the muscles and tendons; racket sports, where excessive topspin can hurt the elbow, also using a racket that's too small, heavy or tightly strung also can lead to injury; and throwing sports, where improper pitching technique in baseball or softball can be another culprit.
16261	Gonadal dysgenesis may be caused by XX gonadal dysgenesis, Turner syndrome and variations, endocrine disruptors, Perrault syndrome, and mixed gonadal dysgenesis.
16262	It is usually caused by the abnormality with the gonads and sex chromosomes.
16263	There is no known cause for the medical condition but it is mostly attributed to genetic predisposition.
16264	The cause of the medical condition is not clear but it is normally linked to the mutation in the follicle stimulating hormone receptor that is commonly inherited.
16265	Defect in genes and its failure to differentiate testes in an XY chromosome is the prevalent cause of the syndrome.
16266	It is a contagious eye infection caused by Neisseria gonorrhoeae.
16267	The bacterium Neisseria gonorrhoeae, is also referred to as gonococcus, causes gonorrhea. The bacterium is spread through semen or vaginal fluids during unprotected sexual intercourse, heterosexual or homosexual, with an infected partner.
16268	Cause of the syndrome is linked to gene inheritance, exposure to certain chemicals like hydrocarbon solvents and weed killer paraquat and other viral infections.
16269	Smokers are at higher risk for Goodpasture's syndrome. Exposure to fumes may also increase risk as well as viral respiratory infections.
16270	The exact cause of the disease is unknown, although several hypothesis about it have been made since the first recorded case in 1954.
16271	Gorlin syndrome is an autosomal dominant disorder. The defect lies on the cell's chromosome 9.
16272	Gout occurs when urate crystals accumulate around your joint, causing the inflammation and intense pain of a gout attack. Urate crystals may form when you have high levels of uric acid in your blood. The body produces uric acid when it breaks down purines, substances that are found naturally in your body, as well as in certain foods, such as organ meats, anchovies, herring, asparagus and mushrooms.
16273	Graft versus host disease occurs because T-cells in the graft attack the transplant recipient's tissue after it recognizes the host tissues as foreign. The T-cells may have been intentionally introduced or contaminated into the graft. Many types of host antigens can instigate the disease, including human leukocyte antigens (HLA). Both HLA-identical unrelated donors and HLA-identical siblings have minor histocompatibility antigens, which the MHC molecules present to the recipient's T-cells. These T-cells identify these antigens as foreign bodies, thus launching an immune attack.
16274	Grand mal seizures happen when the electrical activity in a large region of the brain becomes abnormally synchronized. The cause of seizures remains unknown in estimated half of cases. However, grand mal seizures are sometimes caused by underlying health problems, such as: very low blood levels of glucose, sodium, calcium or magnesium; traumatic head injuries; using or withdrawing from drugs, including alcohol; infections such as meningitis or encephalitis; brain tumors; and blood vessel malformations in the brain or strokes.
16275	Granulocytopenia may be caused by genetic congenital abnormalities, autoimmune diseases, toxins, fibrosis of bone marrow, tumors, other infections, aplastic anemia, or certain medications and treatments including chemotherapy.
16276	The cause of granuloma annulare is not known. Granuloma annulare is occasionally linked to diabetes, thyroid disease and HIV infection, but most people with granuloma annulare are otherwise healthy.
16277	Donovanosis is caused by the bacterial strain Klebsiella granulomatis, which can be contracted via sexual contact.
16278	Although they frequently appear following injury, the exact cause of pyogenic granulomas is unknown. These granulomas are common in children. They can be quite annoying when these lesions bleed easily.
16279	The disease is caused by the amoebic specie mentioned above. The amoeba then infiltrates the brain tissues resulting to necrosis.
16280	The cause of Graves' disease is still unknown; however doctors theorize that it may be a combination of stress with genetics, sex, age, and heredity.
16282	The cause of many congenital heart defects remain unknown. However, certain prenatal factors contribute to a higher incidence, including maternal alcoholism, maternal rubella, other viral illnesses experienced during pregnancy, pregnant women over 40, poor prenatal nutrition, and diabetes.
16284	Influenza is caused by an airborne virus which can be transmitted though cough droplets or sneezing. When not treated, grippe can cause pneumonia and bronchitis.
16285	It is often linked to mutations in MYO5A and RAB27A.
16287	In hematuria, the kidneys - or other parts of the urinary tract - allow blood cells to leak into urine. A number of problems can cause this leakage, including: urinary tract infections; kidney infections; bladder or kidney stones; enlarged prostate; kidney disease; cancer; inherited disorders; kidney injury; medications; and strenuous exercise.
16288	GBS is a bacterial disease that thrives in a woman's vagina or rectal area.
16289	The cause of Grover's disease is unknown. The spots may sometimes appear for no reason.
16290	There's no evidence or proof that a child's growth is painful. However, running, climbing and jumping can be too much on a child's musculoskeletal system. Muscle pain at night from overuse during the day is the most probable cause of growing pains. The pains can happen after a child has had a particularly athletic day.
16291	The cause of constitutional growth delay is unknown. However, it may occur as the result of inheriting growth patterns from a parent, but it may also appear for no reason.
16292	Causes of growth hormone deficiency includes severe head trauma, mutations of specific genes, damage to the pituitary gland from intracranial diseases, surgery in the area of the pituitary gland, autoimmune inflammation, congenital malformations involving the pituitary, damage in the pituitary due to radiation therapy, and hemorrhagic or ischemic infarction due to low blood pressure.
16293	The causes for growth problems include underlying physical illnesses, feeding problems as well as emotional neglect.
16294	Guanidinoacetate methyltransferase deficiency is inherited disorder.
16296	There is no exact cause for GBS; the condition can strike anybody at anytime. Both men and women are equally at risk; however it is very rare.
16297	The worms cause swelling and painful, burning blisters. To calm the burning, sufferers tend to go in the water, where the blisters burst, allowing the worm to emerge and release a new generation of millions of larvae. In the water, the larvae are taken back by small water fleas, and the cycle begins.
16298	Potential causes were still being considered others, which have been suggested through the years having been ruled out: combustion products from depleted uranium munitions, infectious diseases from parasites chemical weapons such as never gas or mustard gas.
16299	Gum cancers can be formed due to allergic reactions and other previous diseases that occurred in the gums. Among these diseases is herpes stomatitis. Viral diseases can also bring forth gum cancer development.
16300	Gingivitis is usually caused by bacterial plaque that accumulates in the small gaps between the gums and the teeth and in calculus (tartar) that forms on the teeth. Growth by continuous additions may be tiny, even microscopic, but the bacteria in them produce foreign chemicals and toxins that cause inflammation of the gums around the teeth.
16302	The phobia may be from anxiety from fear that their bodies are physically inferior or from the fear that the nakedness leaves their bodies and their personality exposed and unprotected. Emotional trauma is also linked to be a cause of gymnophobia.
16303	Physiologic gynecomastia occurs in neonates, at or before puberty and with aging. Numerous cases of gynecomastia are idiopathic, meaning they have no clear cause. Possible pathologic causes of gynecomastia are: medications including hormones, increased serum estrogen, decreased testosterone production, androgen receptor defects, chronic kidney disease, chronic liver disease, HIV, and other chronic illness. In 25% of cases, the cause of the gynecomastia is not known.
16304	H. pylori bacteria enter the body through the mouth and pass into the digestive system. The stomach is generally a very hostile environment for many kinds of bacteria. But the H. pylori bacterium is particularly well-adapted for survival in the stomach. It gives out an enzyme that, through a series of biochemical processes, creates a low-acid buffer zone for itself.
16305	Hib is caused by the bacteria that belong to the family of Pasteurellaceae which is generally aerobic but can develop as a facultative anaerobe.
16305	Hib is caused by the bacteria that belong to the family of Pasteurellaceae which is generally aerobic but can develop as a facultative anaerobe.
16306	It is a disorder that is transmitted through inheritance.
16308	Causes of trichotillomania are still being researched, and no specific causes have yet been found. Causes may include genes and neurochemical problems. Researchers recently reported finding mutations in a specific gene that may give rise to trichotillomania. This mutation may lead to neurons in the brain to develop faulty connections that trigger an urge to pull out the hair.
16309	A defect in the DNA causes hairy cell leukemia, although it remains unknown what causes this defect. However, it is known and accepted that the following are not causes of hairy cell leukemia: ionizing radiation, tobacco, industrial chemicals and pesticides. Some studies show that gardening and farming activities have increased risk.
16311	Tooth loss, poor oral hygiene, radiation treatments to head and neck, and excessive use of antibiotics may trigger hairy tongue. Individuals with the condition are frequent tobacco smokers and coffee drinkers.
16312	Hadju-Cheney Syndrome direct cause is not known however, genetic transmission is often linked to the cause of the medical condition.
16313	In most cases (85-90%), bad breath originates in the mouth itself. The intensity of having a bad breath differs during the day, as a function of oral dryness, (which may be due to stress or fasting), eating certain foods (such as garlic, onions, meat, fish and cheese), obesity, smoking and alcohol consumption. Due to the mouth is dry and inactive during the night, the odor is usually worse upon awakening ("morning breath"). Bad breath may be transient, frequently disappearing following eating, brushing one's teeth, flossing, and rinsing with specialized mouthwash.
16314	The condition is usually caused by genetic mutations that affect chromosomes responsible for muscoskeletal formation.
16315	No exact cause for HSD has been found.
16316	Hallucinations can be a result of other disorders. One may be suffering from mental illnesses such as schizophrenia or dementia, as well as manic depression. People intoxicated with drugs or alcohol may sometimes hallucinate depending on how their body responds to these influences. Hallucinations are also triggered by memories of traumatic experiences one has suffered in the past.
16317	Long periods wearing ill-fitting shoes are the primary cause of hallux valgus, especially when the big toe is forced to press inward, and inevitably overlapping the second toe. The big toe is forced out of normal alignment, resulting in a bunion. Wearing of proper fitting shoes is important as the hallux valgus can progress into a severe form and may require surgery.
16318	The main cause of hamburger disease is by eating raw or partially cooked meat wherein the bacteria are present.
16319	A common cause of hammertoe is wearing improper footwear - shoes that are too tight in the toe box, or high-heel shoes. Wearing shoes of either type can push the toes forward, crowding one or more of them into a space that's not large enough to allow the toes to lie flat. The result is a toe that bends up in the middle and then curls down in a hammer-like or claw-like shape. The shoes can rub against the raised portion of the toe or toes, causing painful corns or calluses.
16320	Infection by the enteroviruses through saliva, fluid from blisters, throat and nose discharge, or stools cause the disease. This commonly occurs in day-care centers where potty training is constant, and hands of children frequently go into their mouths.
16321	Sporadic mutations in the MECP2 gene on the X chromosome are responsible for causing the Rett syndrome. Almost all affected are girls, as male fetuses with the disorder usually die before birth.
16322	Its cause is not known but some generalization points to xanthomatosis (R. S. Rowland:Xanthomatosis and the reticuloendothelial system. Correlation of an unidentified group of cases described as defects in mambraneous bones, exophthalmos and diabetes insipidus (Christian's syndrome). Archives of Internal Medicine, Chicago, 1928, 42: 611-674.)
16323	It said to be a caused of the deficiency in enzyme tyrosine amino transferase.
16324	Leprosy is caused by the bacterium Mycobacterium leprae. This strain of bacteria can be found in warm weather. Leprosy is mostly a tropical disease.
16325	Rodents are the primary cause for hantavirosis. They excrete the virus through urine, saliva, and feces. Infection occurs when people inhale rodent excreta; person to person transmission does not happen. Squirrels, chipmunks, and other animals may also carry the virus.
16326	It is caused by hantavirus carried by rodents like mouse and deer and are present in their feces, droppings or saliva.
16327	Gene mutations are responsible for causing HARD syndrome.
16328	The exact cause of harlequin type ichthtyosis is not known, although it is generally accepted that it is an underlying genetic and biochemical abnormality.
16329	Past experience and emotional trauma may be some of the causes of Harpaxophobia.
16330	Hartnup disease is caused by gene mutations and is passed on due to its autosomal recessive nature.
16331	Family history of thyroid disorders places an individual at risk, although the specific reason as to why the antibodies attack the thyroid cells remains unknown. Hashimoto's thyroiditis is more common in women than men.
16332	During a process called sensitization, the immune system mistakenly identifies a harmless airborne substance as something harmful. The immune system then starts producing allergy-causing antibodies. The next time a person comes in contact with the substance, these antibodies recognize it and signal the immune system to release chemicals such as histamine into your bloodstream. These immune system chemicals cause a reaction that results to the irritating signs and symptoms of hay fever. Hay fever can be triggered by either seasonal or year-round allergens. Many people have allergy symptoms all year long, but their symptoms worsen during certain times of the year.
16333	Hay-Wells syndrome is inherited as an autosomal dominant trait.
16334	These cancers are squamous cell carcinomas that originate from the mucosal lining of the neck they can as well be aggravated by alcohol and substance abuse, as well as strains of HPV.
16335	There are many causes of head cancers. Some cancers are caused by the human papilloma virus (HPV), allergic reactions, nicotine due to smoking and acid reflux disease such as GERD.
16336	One can get lice by coming into contact with either lice or their eggs. Eggs hatch in about a week. Lice can't fly or walk on the ground and they spread by: head-to-head or body-to-body contact; close proximity of stored belongings; sharing items; contact with contaminated furniture; and sexual contact.
16338	Cluster headaches, like other types of headaches, are not caused by a medical condition but rather occur due spontaneously.
16339	Cluster headaches, like other types of headaches, are not caused by a medical condition but rather occur due spontaneously.
16340	Ice cream headaches are caused by cold material moving across the roof of the mouth and the back of the throat, as happens when ice cream is eaten quickly or a cold drink is gulped. Scientists are still not sure about the exact mechanism that causes this pain. One theory suggests that the cold food or drink may temporarily alter blood flow in the brain, causing a brief headache. Some researchers suspect that the pain is referred from the mouth to the head via the trigeminal nerve, which delivers sensory information from the face, teeth and tongue to the brain.
16341	What causes primary cough headaches isn't known, though some researchers suspect that increased pressure in the head (intracranial pressure) during coughing or other types of straining may play a role. Secondary cough headaches can almost always be tracked to problems at the base of the skull, where the brain and spinal cord connect. Defects in the shape of the skull or the configuration of the cerebellum can lead to a portion of the brain being forced through an opening at the base of the skull (foramen magnum), where only the spinal cord should go.
16342	Almost any pain reliever can contribute to rebound headaches, but some medications are more likely to lead to rebound headaches. These are simple pain relievers, combination pain relievers, migraine medications, and opiates.
16343	Any type of sexual activity that results to orgasm - including masturbation, oral sex and intercourse - can trigger sex headaches.
16344	Colds and allergies are the typical causes of a sinus headache. The sinuses become congested and can become infected, a condition known as sinusitis. Sinusitis typically occurs after a cold due to bacteria and viruses infecting the lining of the sinuses. Additionally, sinus headaches can be caused by an injury to the bones, a deformity of the nose, or any condition that prevents the draining of the sinuses.
16345	Spinal headaches are caused by leakage of spinal fluid through a puncture hole in the membrane that envelops the spinal cord. This leakage reduces the pressure exerted by the spinal fluid on the brain and spinal cord, which leads to a headache.
16346	The exact cause of tension-type headaches is still not known. It is suggested that abnormalities in the peripheral and central nervous systems may be concerned in the pathophysiology of TTH. It has long been believed that they are the result of muscle tension around the head and neck. One of the theories says that the main cause for tension type headaches and migraine is teeth clenching which leads to a chronic contraction of the temporalis muscle.
16347	Potentially life-threatening conditions that cause thses headaches include: bleeding between the brain and membranes covering the brain; a bulge in a blood vessel in the brain, which may rupture; a tear in the lining of an artery that supplies blood to the brain; a cyst that blocks the flow of cerebrospinal fluid; and death of tissue or bleeding in the pituitary gland.
16348	Headaches may be caused by an underlying sickness, tension or injury.
16349	A number of environmental and biological factors may result in hearing disorders. These include illness or disease such as measles, mumps, meningitis, AIDS, adenoids, Chlamydia, ostosclerosis, premature birth, syphilis, and HIV; medications; and physical trauma.
16350	Hearing impairment may be caused by biological causes like obstruction of the ear canal, middle ear abnormalities; chemical and some medical administration causes hearing impairment. Loud environmental conditions as well as accidents may also cause the impairment.
16351	It is said to be caused by a lot of factors such as environmental and biological factors. Some medications also like vicodin and oxycontin causes hearing impairment. Physical trauma, disease or illness and long term exposure to noise are often said to be the cause of hearing impairment. Genetic inheritance is also considered.
16352	Common causes of arrhythmias, or conditions that can result to arrhythmias, include heart disease, high blood pressure, diabetes, smoking, excessive use of alcohol or caffeine, drug abuse, and stress. Over-the-counter medications, prescription medications, dietary supplements and herbal remedies also can lead to arrhythmias in some people.
16353	A heart attack occurs when one or more of the arteries supplying the heart with oxygen-rich blood become blocked. These arteries are called coronary arteries and encircle the heart like a crown. Over time, a coronary artery narrows from the buildup of cholesterol. This buildup - collectively known as plaques - in arteries throughout the body is referred to as atherosclerosis.
16354	Heart babies are a result of genetic defects. This is due to a lack of gene variety among parents. Problems such as diabetes and Down's syndrome are effects of faulty genes, and heart babies are commonly seen with these problems.
16355	Congenital defects may cause heart block, although it can also occur as a result of heart attack or myocarditis, cardiomyopathy, and other forms of heart disease. Heart block is common in younger persons although it also affects older people.
16356	Heart failure often develops after other conditions have damaged or weakened the heart. Over time, the heart fails to keep up with the normal demands placed on it. The ventricles may become stiff and not fill properly between heartbeats. Also, the heart muscle may weaken, and the ventricles stretch or dilate to the point that the heart can't pump blood efficiently throughout the body.
16357	Innocent murmurs are heard when blood moves noisily through a normal heart. Occasionally these murmurs occur when: Blood is flowing faster than usual through the heart and blood vessels attached to the heart. The most usual cause of abnormal murmurs is congenital heart defects. Congenital heart defects happen when the heart, heart valves, or blood vessels attached to the heart do not develop normally before a baby is born.
16358	It is inherited or transmitted through autosomal recessive genes.
16359	The reason some people develop heartburn is still unclear. However, research shows that in people with heartburn, the LES relaxes while the rest of the esophagus is working.
16360	Heat cramps are caused by the contraction of muscles due to extreme heat. This is common during heat waves or to those who have suffered from heatstroke.
16361	In hot weather, the body cools itself mainly by sweating. The evaporation of sweat regulates the body temperature. However, when one exercises strenuously or otherwise overexert in hot, humid weather, the body is less able to cool itself efficiently. As a result, the body may develop heat cramps, the mildest form of heat-related illness.
16362	Heat rash begins with excessive perspiration, usually in a hot, humid environment. The perspiration damaged cells at the outer part of the skin, forming a barrier and trapping sweat beneath the skin, where it builds up, causing the characteristic bumps.
16363	Hyperthermia can be created artificially by drugs or medical devices. In these circumstances it may be used to treat cancer and other conditions. Malignant hyperthermia is a unusual complication of some types of general anesthesia.
16364	The cause is the ingestion of metals such as copper, lead and zinc
16365	The heel spur is caused by an inflammatory disease called plantar fasciitis. It is the swelling of the plantar fascia due to biomechanical problems including obesity.
16366	Helicobacter pylori is a contagious bacterium. Many researchers think that Helicobacter pylori is transmitted orally by means of fecal matter through the ingestion of waste tainted food or water. A clean and hygienic environment can help decrease the risk of Helicobacter pylori infection.
16367	Heliophobia, just like any other phobia, are psychological disorder. Fear of the sun may arise due to fear to skin cancer. Keratoconus or extreme optic sensitivity to sunlight and other bright lights may cause oversensitivity to sunlight.
16368	There's no known cause of Heller's syndrome. The disorder may occur suddenly over the course of days to weeks or gradually over an extended period of time.
16369	The cause of HELLP syndrome is unknown, although it occurs in 10% of women with pre-eclampsia or eclampsia.
16370	It is commonly cause by the parasitic worms such as roundworms and pinworms which resides in the intestinal tract and sometimes to other organs of the body.
16372	Hemangioblastomas usually occur sporadically, or alongside von Hippel-Lindau disease (VHL), which is autosomal-recessive in nature.
16373	The causes of hemangioendothelioma remain unknown although there is suspicion that certain factors may provoke the disease: contraceptive pills, inhalation of chemicals or pesticides, and exposure to vinyl chloride. Hemangioendothelioma affects both genders.
16374	The causes of hemangioma are unknown, however it is suggested that estrogen plays a significant role in its occurrence.
16375	The cause of HTS is unknown; however it is suspected it occurs only in certain types of hemangiomas: tufted angiomas and Kaposi hemangioendotheliomas.
16376	Hematuria is caused by anomalies in the kidney in particular and the urinary tract in general. With hematuria, the kidney allows blood cells to abnormally leak into the urine. The leakage itself may be attributed to: urinary tract infections; bladder or kidney stones; enlarged prostate; kidney injury; kidney disease; carcinoma; a number of hereditary disorders; strenuous exercise; plus ingesting some drugs that can cause urinary blood.
16377	Hemianopia is a result of damages done to the optic nerves. This can be acquired through brain injuries, tumors or stroke. Blood clots and capillary damage can also contribute to this condition.
16378	Hemifacial microsomia usually occurs sporadically, but in some families it may be inherited. They may have certain genetic patterns such as autosomal dominant, autosomal recessive, and multifactorial. The condition occurs during fetal stages of pregnancy, where a vascular problem results in poor supply of blood to the face and causes clotting. There is no evidence that this is caused due to a mother's activities while she was carrying the child.
16379	Hemifacial spasms are caused by the involuntary contraction of the blood vessels that connect the face and the cranial nerves. Due to the pressure, spasms arise.
16380	Hemihypertrophy is usually an idiopathic condition. Some cases meanwhile are linked with certain malformation problems.
16381	It is usually hereditary. The enlargement of the one side of the braid causes imbalance and seizure and later on retardation.
16382	Hemiplegia may be congenital meaning it occurred before or during birth. It may also be result from a stroke (Patten C, Lexell J, Brown HE. Weakness and strength training in persons with poststroke hemiplegia: Rationale, method, and efficacy. J Rehab Res Dev 2004;41:293-312).
16384	Humans and animals may contract any of the VHF viruses through a number of ways, although usually respiratory.
16385	The most susceptible organs include the liver, adrenal glands, the heart and the pancreas; patients can present with cirrhosis, adrenal insufficiency, heart failure or diabetes. The hereditary form of the disease is very common to those Northern European ancestry in particular those of British descent.
16386	Hemoglobinopathy is a medical condition which results from the unusual genetic variation which causes the production of hemoglobin with different structures and by the unusually low or reduced amount of normal hemoglobin production of the body.
16387	A number of factors may cause hemoglobinuria: burns, sickle cell anemia, renal cancers, pyelonephritis, acute glomerulonephritis, exertional hemoglobinuria, malaria, tuberculosis of the urinary tract, transfusion immune reaction, thrombotic thrombocytic purpura, exertional hemoglobinuria, and hemolytic-uremic syndrome.
16389	The disease is caused by the mother's exposure to foreign antigens that caused the production of IgG. As opposed to IgM, which doesn't pass through the placenta, IgG antibodies attack even the red blood cells that are present in the fetus. This incident can be due to hemorrhage during pregnancy, abortion, and poorly performed blood transfusion.
16390	HUS can be caused by HIV, Lupus erythematosus, malignant hypertension and side effects of cancer chemotherapy.
16391	Infection in the digestive system of the E.coli strain is the primary cause of HUS.
16392	HLH has an autosomal recessive nature, and thus may be caused by genetics. It may also be caused by infections, immunodeficiency, or an underlying malignancy.
16393	Hemophilia is caused by the missing factors that help the blood coagulate. In hemophilia A, the factor XIII is absent, while factor IX is the one missing in hemophilia B. Hemophilia is an autosomal recessive disease.
16394	Mutations in the Factor VIII gene cause the disorder, and it is an inherited disease.
16395	Persons afflicted with Hemophobia had traumatic experiences with blood during childhood or adolescence. Other studies note that Hemophobia is genetically acquired.
16396	A variety of reasons can cause hemorrhage. One can be of traumatic injuries suffered by a person during an accident or event that caused an open wound. Organ diseases such as cirrhosis, hypertension, and cardiovascular illnesses can also lead to hemorrhage. Viruses, such as the infamous filovirus can also cause hemorrhage (hemorrhagic fever).
16397	The person experiences prolonged bleeding due to the absence of the glycoprotein Ib-IX-V complex that causes platelets to stick. A child may also inherit the abnormal gene that causes this syndrome from each parent. However, the disease is rarely inherited from just one parent who carries the abnormal gene.
16398	Increased straining during bowel movements, by constipation or diarrhea, may lead to hemorrhoids. It is usual condition due to constipation caused by water retention in women experiencing premenstrual syndrome or menstruation. Hypertension, particularly portal hypertension, can also cause hemorrhoids because of the connections between the portal vein and the vena cava which occur in the rectal well known as portocaval anastomoses
16399	Chest trauma is the most common cause of hemothorax. Those with pleural or lung cancer are also at risk, as well as those suffering from defects of the blood clotting system. Patients of heart or thoracic surgery and those who suffer from pulmonary infarction are at risk.
16400	Hendra virus thrives in horses, and it can be transmitted to humans via exposure to the animal's waste. It also lives in pigs. During an outbreak in Singapore, victims contracted the disease via pig refuse.
16401	HSP occurs most frequently in the spring and frequently follows an infection of the throat or breathing passages.
16402	The main cause of HIT is an allergic reaction in patients to the drug heparin.
16403	Causes of hepatic encephalopathy include potassium deficiency, alkalosis, narcotics, sedatives, hypnotics, drugs containing amino compounds or ammonia, or infections in the liver or body.
16404	The exact causes for the growth of hepatic hemangioma are unknown.
16406	Viral hepatitis can be caused by Herpes simplex, Cytomegalovirus, Epstein-Barr, yellow fever virus, and adenoviruses. Non viral infection are caused by toxoplasma, Leptospira, Q fever, rocky mountain spotted fever. Other causes include alcohol, drugs, and pregnancy.
16407	Hepatitis A or infectious jaundice is caused by a picornavirus transmitted by the fecal-oral route, usually associated with ingestion of contaminated food or with anal/oral sex. It causes an acute form of hepatitis and does not lead to the chronic stage. This form is caused by the hepatitis A virus (HAV), which thrives in the stools (feces or poop) of infected individuals. Infected stool can be found in small amounts in food and on objects (from doorknobs to diapers).
16408	Hepatitis B is caused by the hepatitis B virus (also known as HBV). HBV can lead to a wide spectrum of symptoms ranging from general malaise to chronic liver disease that can lead to liver cancer. The hepatitis B virus spreads through infected body fluids (such as blood, saliva, semen, vaginal fluids, tears, and urine), a contaminated blood transfusion, shared contaminated needles or syringes for injecting drugs, sexual activity with an HBV-infected person, and through transmission from HBV-infected mothers to their newborn babies.
16409	The hepatitis C virus (also known as HCV) is spread by direct contact with an infected person's blood. The symptoms of the hepatitis C virus can mirror those of the hepatitis A and B viruses. However, infection with the hepatitis C virus can result to chronic liver disease and is the leading reason for liver transplant in the United States. The hepatitis C virus can be spread by sharing drug needles, getting a tattoo or body piercing with unsterilized tools, blood transfusions, transmission from mother to newborn, and sexual contact, although this is less common. Hepatitis C is also a commonly found threat in kidney dialysis centers. Rarely, people living with an infected individual can contract the disease by sharing items that might contain that person's blood, such as razors or toothbrushes.
16410	Hepatitis D is a disease that is caused by a small circular RNA virus (Hepatitis delta virus or hepatitis D virus, HDV). HDV is considered to be a subviral satellite because it can develop only in the presence of another virus, the hepatitis B virus (HBV). Transmission of HDV can arise either via simultaneous infection with HBV (coinfection) or via infection of an individual previously infected with HBV (superinfection). Both superinfection and coinfection with HDV leads to more severe complications compared to infection with HBV alone. These complications include a greater likelihood of experiencing liver failure in acute infections and a much greater likelihood of developing liver cancer in chronic infections. In combination with hepatitis B virus, hepatitis D has the highest mortality rate of all hepatitis infections of 20%.
16411	Hepatitis E is a virus that lives in feces and water. It is common in places with poor sanitation and non-potable water supply.
16412	Ethanol, mostly the kind found in alcoholic beverages, is a significant cause of hepatitis. Usually alcoholic hepatitis results after a period of increased alcohol consumption.
16413	Hepatitis E is a viral hepatitis (liver inflammation) that results from an infection of a virus called hepatitis E virus (HEV). Hepatitis F virus is a hypothetical virus that is associated with hepatitis. Hepatitis G is caused by the Hepatitis G Virus (HGV). This also known as the GB virus-C (GBV-C)
16414	With toxic hepatitis liver damage is the result of a drug complication with hepatotoxins which happens to everyone who takes that particular drug. In patients with a metabolic idiosyncrasy the person metabolizes the drug quite differently than most people thus causing a harmful by-product that damages the liver. With an immunologic idiosyncrasy the patient's body recognizes the metabolized drug by-products as a foreign body. This results to the destruction of liver cells containing the by-product via the immune system resulting in hepatitis.
16415	Hepatitis X is caused by the hepatitis virus that can be found in feces and contaminated food and drinks.
16416	The cause of chronic autoimmune hepatitis is not clear.
16417	Some toxins always damage or destroy the liver. Dry cleaning solvents and the aptly named deathcap (amanita) mushroom are among the group. They have poisons that overwhelm the liver's ability to process them, and the resulting toxic byproducts destroy liver cells. If enough cells are destroyed, the liver can no longer function properly (liver failure).
16418	As with other pediatric malignancies, the cause of hepatoblastoma is generally not known. Cancer has been suggested to arise from unregulated cellular differentiation and proliferation. Similarities between the developing fetal liver and the fetal epithelial-type cells of hepatoblastoma are dramatic. Developing cells of the early fetal liver and the cells of fetal hepatoblastoma are same in size and configuration. A developmental disturbance during liver formation in embryogenesis likely leads to aberrant proliferation of these undifferentiated cells.
16419	Generally, cirrhosis of any etiology is the major risk factor for HCC. About 80% of patients with newly diagnosed HCC already have preexisting cirrhosis. Major causes of cirrhosis in the United States are attributed to hepatitis C infection, alcohol, and hepatitis B infection.
16420	Hepatocerebral degeneration is caused by liver problems such as cirrhosis and hepatitis.
16422	Hepatoma can be caused by long-standing cirrhosis, and chronic infections with hepatitis B and C.
16423	Some common causes of hepatomegaly are glandular fever, hepatitis, liver abscess, malaria, amoeba infection, hydatid cyst, leptospirosis, and actinomycosis.
16424	In some patients, HRS may arise spontaneously, whereas in others, it may be associated with infections, acute alcoholic hepatitis, or large-volume paracentesis without albumin replacement. Hepatorenal syndrome occurs when there is a decrease in kidney function in an individual with a liver disorder. The most common symptom is the reduction in urine production. As a result of reduced elimination of urine, nitrogen-containing waste products collect in the blood stream.
16425	The causes of primary amyloidosis is unknown. However, it is associated with abnormalities in blood cells because it often arises in people with bone marrow cancer. Secondary amyloidosis arises in people who have a chronic infection or inflammatory disease, such as tuberculosis, a bacterial infection called familial Mediterranean fever, bone infections, rheumatoid arthritis, inflammation of the small intestine, Hodgkin's disease, and leprosy.
16426	Precipitating factors of attacks may include trauma (especially dental trauma), menstruation, anxiety, infection, exercise, alcohol consumption, and stress. Medications (examples like estrogen, ACE inhibitors, angiotensin II type 1 receptor antagonists) have also been shown to induce attacks.
16427	The hereditary ataxias can be subdivided by mode of inheritance (that is, autosomal recessive, autosomal dominant, X-linked, and mitochondrial) and causative gene or chromosomal locus.
16428	Symptoms of Batten disease and other NCLs are associated to a buildup of substances called lipopigments in the body's tissues.
16429	Coproporphyria is the result of a combination of a genetic enzyme defect and acquired causes that become symptomatic in rare cases. In individuals with coproporphyria, the function of coproporphyrinogen oxidase is only 40-60% of normal. Also, most patients with defects in coproporphyrinogen oxidase never display any symptoms. The typical inducers of porphyria are chemicals or situations that boost heme synthesis. This includes fasting and many medications, among others.
16430	Syndromic hearing impairment is linked with malformations of the external ear or other organs or with medical problems involving other organ systems. Nonsyndromic hearing impairment has no associated visible abnormalities of the external ear, nor are there any related medical problems; however, it can be linked with abnormalities of the middle ear and/or inner ear
16432	Hereditary elliptocytosis and its variants are inherited predominantly in an autosomal dominant fashion.
16433	The deficient enzyme is aldolase-B, which turns fructose-1-phosphate into DHAP and glyceraldehyde. This means that the fructose cannot be metabolized further beyond fructose-1-phosphate. This traps phosphates which are required to phosphorylate glycogen phosphorylase which carries on to release units of glucose-1-phosphate from glycogen.
16434	Hereditary hemochromatosis is a genetic disorder caused by a mutation on a gene that regulates iron absorption. Carriers don't necessarily have the condition themselves, but can pass the mutated gene on to their offspring.
16435	Hereditary hemorrhagic telangiectasia type 1 is brought about by mutations in the gene ENG. Type 2 is brought about by mutations in the gene ACVRL1. Juvenile polyposis/hereditary hemorrhagic telangiectasia syndrome is brought about by mutations in the gene SMAD4. All these genes provide instructions for producing proteins that are found in the lining of the blood vessels. These proteins interact with growth factors that control the development of blood vessels. The gene involved in hereditary hemorrhagic telangiectasia type 3 is unknown, but is believed to be located on chromosome 5.
16436	These disorders are caused by, defects in the chemical processes involved in the breakdown of sugar molecules (glycolysis), among other things. Red blood cells depend on this process for energy and if an enzyme is defective in any one of the stages, the red blood cell cannot function properly and hemolysis takes place. In addition, HNSHA may occur as the result of immune disorders, toxic chemicals and drugs, antiviral agents, physical damage, and infections.
16437	Hereditary pancreatitis is a genetic disorder, meeaning it runs in families. Most people with hereditary pancreatitis have a mutation to the cationic tryspinogen gene, also known as PRSS1. There are a few different types of known mutations of this gene that are associated with hereditary pancreatitis
16438	The disease is a genetic disorder that can be either autosomal recessive or autosomal dominant.
16439	Familial spastic paraplegia is a condition that is inherited.
16440	An intrinsic genetic defect results to defects in membrane proteins. Hemolysis in HS arises from the interplay of an intact spleen and an intrinsic membrane protein defect that leads to abnormal RBC morphology.
16441	These autoimmune disorders are inherited.
16442	Seven genes may result to HPS in humans. Researchers identified an HPS gene, located in chromosome region 10q23.1-23.3 by using a positional cloning approach.1 Genetic analysis of patients from Puerto Rico identified a 16-base pair duplication/frameshift within exon 15. This leads to a frameshift at codon Pro 496. This gene is known as the HPS-1 gene.
16443	In most people with true gonadal intersex, the underlying cause is not known, although in some animal studies it has been linked to exposure to common agricultural pesticides.
16444	A hernia occurs when the contents of a body cavity bulge out of the area where they are normally contained. These contents, usually portions of intestine or abdominal fatty tissue, are enclosed in the thin membrane that naturally lines the inside part of the cavity.
16445	Hernia in children is caused by the abnormal closure of the umbilical cord during childbirth.
16446	Some inguinal hernias have no obvious cause. But many happen as a result of increased pressure within the abdomen, a pre-existing weak spot in the abdominal wall or a combination of the two.
16447	In adults, too much abdominal pressure can result to an umbilical hernia. Possible culprits include: obesity, heavy lifting, coughing, multiple pregnancies, fluid in the abdominal cavity (ascites).
16448	A herniated disc may be caused by injury to the spine. This may cause small tears or cracks in the hard outer layer of the disc. When this occurs, the gel inside the disc can be forced out through the tears or cracks in the outer layer of the disc. It causes the disc to bulge, break open, or break into pieces.
16449	Herpangina is caused by a virus, the most common of which are coxsackie virus and echovirus.
16450	The causes of reactivation from latency are uncertain but several potential triggers have been documented. Physical or psychological stress may trigger an outbreak of herpes. Local injury to the face, lips, eyes or mouth, trauma, surgery, wind, radiotherapy, ultraviolet light or sunlight are well found.
16451	The disease is not caused by the herpes virus. It is an autoimmune disorder caused by an attack of an IgG antibody against a 180 kD antigen. This takes place at the undermost part of the epidermis.
16452	This disease is caused by the herpes zoster virus, which can be transmitted via sexual contact.
16453	There are two known types of herpes simplex viruses. HSV type 2 is the one that usually causes genital herpes. One can get HSV type 2 during sexual contact with someone who has a genital HSV-2 infection. One can get HSV-1 by coming into contact with the saliva of an infected person.
16454	HSE is thought to be the result of the retrograde transmission of virus from a peripheral site on the face to the brain along a nerve axon following HSV-1 reactivation. In children older than 3 months and in adult patients, HSV-1 is responsible for virtually all cases. HSV-2 causes a small number of cases, most particularly in the immunocompromised host.
16455	A strain of herpes simplex virus (HSV), which enters your body through small breaks in your skin or mucous membranes is the general cause of genital herpes and sexual contact is the primary way that the virus spreads. It is nearly impossible to get the infection through contact with towels, toilets or other objects used by an infection person because the virus dies quickly outside of the body.
16456	Caused by infection of the mouth area with herpes simplex virus, most often type 1, herpes labialis is an extremely common disease, with most Americans are infected by the age of 20. No symptoms or mouth ulcers may result from the initial infection because the virus remains in the nerve tissue of the face. The virus produces and reactivates recurrent cold sores that are usually in the same area, but are not serious in some people.
16457	The causes of sacral herpes simplex include the mode of transmission is by close personal contact, infection occurs via inoculation of virus into susceptible mucosal surfaces such as the cervix or through small cracks in the skin and the virus is inactivated readily at room temperature and by drying; hence, aerosol and fomitic spread occur rarely.
16458	Infections are caused by herpesviridae, one of the major virus families, to which the herpes simplex, varicella zoster, and Epstein-Barr viruses belong. Viruses belonging to this family have a double-stranded linear molecular structure with icosahedral symmetry.
16459	The exact mechanism of varicella-zoster reactivation is not known; however, a reduced cellular immunity is a causative factor.
16460	HZ oticus is caused by the reactivation of latent VZV, which has remained dormant inside the sensory ganglia of the facial nerve. Individuals with reduced cell-mediated immunity resulting from carcinoma, radiation therapy, chemotherapy, or HIV infection are at greater risk for reactivation of latent VZV. Physical and emotional stress usually are cited as precipitating factors.
16461	Infectious epithelial keratitis is the result of active viral replication within the corneal epithelium
16462	The causes of herpetic whitlow include patients with other herpetic lesions such as herpes labialis, herpetic gingivostomatitis, or genital herpes which are at risk due to autoinoculation. Immunocompromised patients are at risk for reactivation, primary infection and possibly systematic complications.
16464	Hyperornithinemia-hyperammonemia-homocitrullinemia (HHH) syndrome is a genetic/metabolic disorder caused by a defect in the ORNT1, a mitochondrial ornithine transporter.
16465	The following are possible causes or contributing factors for having a hiatus hernia. Increased pressure within the abdomen caused by: Heavy lifting or frequent bending over, Frequent or hard coughing, Hard sneezing, Violent vomiting, Straining with constipation, Obesity, Use of the sitting position for defecation.
16466	The cause of hiccups in children and infants is rarely found. Brief episodes in adults generally are benign and self-limiting. Typical causes include gastric distention (food, alcohol, air), sudden changes in ambient or gastric temperature, and excessive use of alcohol and/or tobacco. Psychogenic causes (excitement, stress) also may result to hiccups. Persistent or intractable episodes are more probable to result from serious pathophysiological processes affecting a component of the hiccup reflex mechanism. More than 100 causes have been described; however, in many cases, the cause remains unknown.
16467	Hidradenitis suppurativa arises when the oil glands and hair follicle openings become blocked. When oils and other skin products become trapped, they push themselves into surrounding tissue. Bacteria can then cause infection and inflammation.
16468	The sickness is normally caused by the insufficient oxygen at high altitudes. In places above 10,000 ft., oxygen can no longer be inhaled normally by the human body, thus the blood couldn't deliver sufficient oxygen to the organs in need, particularly the brain.
16469	High altitude pulmonary edema is caused by insufficient oxygen which the body could no longer inhale.
16470	The Common cause of High Cholesterol are; Diabetes mellitus and metabolic syndrome, Kidney disease, Hypothyroidism, Anorexia nervosa, Zieve's syndrome.
16471	Certain practices such as infant swaddling and use of the cradle-board in certain cultures heighten the chances of developing hip dysplasia. Hence environmental factors are also at play.
16472	Some of the identified causes of a hip labral tear include repetitive activities, trauma arising from the dislocation of the hip and other related disease that causes damage to the labrum. Most often the damage is due to sports activities that may include some pivoting and twisting motions.
16473	HD starts before a child is born. Normally, nerve cells start grow in the baby's intestine soon after the baby begins to develop in the womb. These nerve cells grow down from the top of the intestine all the way around to the anus. With HD, these nerve cells stop growing before they reach the end. The reason why the nerve cells stop growing are unknown.
16474	The cause of hirsutism may be either an increased level of androgens (male hormones) or an oversensitivity of hair follicles to androgens. Male hormones like testosterone stimulate hair growth, increase size and intensify the growth and pigmentation of hair. Other symptoms linked with a high level of male hormones include acne and deepening of the voice and increased muscle mass.
16476	People with PLCH are generally cigarette smokers. Antigenic stimulation from 1 or more components of tobacco smoke is likely responsible for the onset of this disease. Because only a few tobacco smokers develop the disease, other susceptibility factors, such as host genetics and environmental exposures, most likely play a significant role in pathogenesis. Some reports in the literature also describe PLCH developing after radiation and/or chemotherapy for lymphoma.
16477	The risk of infection is generally related to environmental exposure and underlying immune status. Living in endemic areas with contaminated soil also increases the risk of exposure. Individuals who are immunocompetent and exposed to a low inoculum of histoplasmosis are typically asymptomatic. Inhalation of a large inoculum can result to diffuse pulmonary symptoms that may have a protracted course.
16478	The cause of this disorder is not known but childhood events and genetics may both be involved.
16479	Hives are generally inflammation of the skin that is triggered by mast cells that releases histamine along with other chemicals into the bloodstream. This causes small blood vessels to leak. However, it is still not understood the underlying cause of hives but it is generally believed that is has something to do with an immune system disorder.
16480	It's not known what causes hoarding. Some researchers believe that hoarding happens on a continuum - some people may simply be considered harmless pack rats, while others have a much more severe form of collecting that endangers their life.
16481	Some causes of laryngitis are: viral infection, bacterial or fungal infection, inflammation due to overuse of the vocal cords, excessive coughing, excessive alcohol consumption, and excessive smoking.
16482	The exact cause of Hodgkin's disease is not known. 5 types pf Hodgkin's disease are recognized - all among a group of cancers called lymphomas - cancers of the lymphatic system. The lymphatic system includes the lymph nodes (lymph glands), which are found throughout the body and are connected by small vessels called lymphatics. The spleen, thymus gland and bone marrow also belong to the lymphatic system.
16483	The gene locus has been mapped to band 21q22.1, with a limited number of allelic variants recognized.
16484	The cause of holoprosencephaly is currently not known. Suggested risk factors include maternal diabetes, infections during pregnancy (toxoplasmosis, syphilis, rubella, herpes, cytomegalovirus), and various drugs taken during pregnancy (alcohol, aspirin, lithium, thorazine, anticonvulsants, hormones, retinoic acid).
16485	Mutations in the TBX5 gene lead to Holt-Oram syndrome. The TBX5 gene plays a role in the growth of the heart and upper limbs before birth. In particular, this gene appears to be important for the process that divides the growing heart into four chambers (cardiac septation). The TBX5 gene also appears to play a critical role in controlling the development of bones in the arm and hand. Mutations in this gene probably hinder the development of the heart and upper limbs, leading to the characteristic features of Holt-Oram syndrome.
16486	Mutations in the CBS, MTHFR, MTR, and MTRR genes result to homocystinuria.
16487	Hookworm is a leading cause of maternal and child morbidity in the developing countries of the tropics and subtropics. In susceptible children hookworms cause intellectual, cognitive and growth retardation, intrauterine growth retardation, prematurity and low birth weight to newborns born to infected mothers. Hookworm infection is not commonly fatal, but anemia can be significant in the heavily infected individual.
16488	The cause of a sty is a bacterial infection, often staphylococcus. Typically the bacterial infection develops near the root (follicle) of an eyelash. There may be more than one sty at a time or several in succession.
16489	Horn Kolb syndrome is caused by a genomic deletion in C7orf2, the human orthologue of the lmbr1 gene.
16490	Horner's syndrome is usually acquired but may also be inborn or caused by medical treatment. Although most causes are relatively harmless, Horner's syndrome may reflect serious pathology in the neck or chest (such as a Pancoast tumor or thyrocervical venous dilatation) and hence requires workup.
16491	Horseshoe kidney may arise as an isolated anomaly or in association with other congenital anomalies. The morbidity and mortality rates greatly depend on whether it is associated with other anomalies.
16492	The reasons behind hot flashes vary. They can be of the changes happening inside a woman's body such as menstruation, pregnancy or menopause. Hot flashes can also be due to weather conditions such as extreme heat.
16493	The most common causes of hair follicle infection include injuries to your skin, such as abrasions or surgical wounds, excessive perspiration, friction from shaving or tight clothing, covering your skin with plastic dressings or adhesive tape, inflammatory skin conditions, including acne and dermatitis, and exposure to coal tar, creosote or pitch.
16494	Hereditary keratoderma runs in families and is passed down or from one or both parent(s) to their children while acquired keratoderma is not inherited and occurs as a result of a change in the health or the environment of the affected person
16495	HPV infection occurs when the virus enters the body through a cut, abrasion or imperceptible tear in the outer layer of the skin. The virus is transferred typically by skin-to-skin contact.
16496	Infections are caused by the herpes simplex virus type 2.
16497	The disease is a corollary effect in patients suffering from other disease systemic lupus erythematosus. When not treated, it can cause sudden death.
16499	Human Granulocytic Ehrlichiosis is brought about by a bacterium of the Ehrlichiosis family that has not yet been named. The Ehrlichial bacterium is carried and passed on by certain ticks (vectors), such as the deer tick (Ixodes dammini) and the American dog tick (Dermacentor variabilis).
16500	Body-to-body or head-to-head contact Close ranges of stored belongings Sharing personal belongings Contact with infected furniture
16501	HIV can be transmitted in several ways, including: sexual transmission, transmission through infected blood, transmission through needle sharing, transmission through accidental needle sticks, transmission from mother to child, and rarely, organ or tissue transplants.
16502	HPV infection occurs when the virus enters the body through a cut, abrasion or imperceptible tear in the outer layer of the skin. The virus is transferred typically by skin-to-skin contact.
16503	Some infectious agents known to cause a "reactive" form of arthritis and rash because of their ability to act as superantigens include cytomegalovirus, streptococcus, mycoplasma, Klebsiella, and Borrelia burgdorferi.
16505	The onset of postural kyphosis generally is gradual. It's more frequent in girls than in boys. Poor posture or slouching may result to stretching of the spinal ligaments and abnormal formation of the bones of the spine (vertebrae). Postural kyphosis typically is accompanied by an exaggerated inward curve (hyperlordosis) in the lower (lumbar) spine. Hyperlordosis is the body's method of compensating for the exaggerated outward curve in the upper spine.
16506	The cause is uncertain, though it may be due to a degeneration of the olivodentatorubral system.
16507	As with all types of MPS, Hunter syndrome is caused when a person does not have a specific enzyme his or her body needs to break down glycosaminoglycans - molecules formed from long chains of complex carbohydrates.
16508	The condition is inherited from either parents.
16509	Huntington's disease is caused by a trinucleotide repeat expansion in the gene coding for Huntingtin protein, which is referred to as "Htt". Huntington's disease is one of many polyglutamine diseases. This expansion give out an altered form of the Htt protein, called mutant Huntingtin (mHtt), resulting in neuronal cell death in select areas of the brain.
16511	The exact cause of Hurthle cell cancer is not known. However, it has been correlated to prolonged exposure to radiation.
16512	Hutchinson incisors are a sign of congenital syphilis, wherein a baby is born already infected with the disease.
16513	Hutchinson-Gilford Progeria Syndrome (HGPS) is a childhood disorder that resulted from mutations in one of the major architectural proteins of the cell nucleus.
16514	The disease is caused by the tapeworm larvae of the Echinococcus particularly E.granulosus, E. multilodulocularid.
16515	A diet deficient in animal fat and carotene may act as a risk factor.
16516	Susceptibility of humans to infection varies, presumably due to individual differences in nutritional, immunologic, and genetic factors.
16517	Hydranencephaly is considered to be an extreme form of porencephaly (a rare disorder marked by a cyst or cavity in the cerebral hemispheres) and may be caused by vascular infections or traumatic disorders after the 12th week of pregnancy.
16518	In most cases, the sac closes in and the fluid is absorbed. However, if the fluid is retained after the sac closes, the condition is known as a noncommunicating hydrocele. Because the sac is closed off, fluid can't flow back into the abdomen. Often the fluid gets absorbed within a year.
16519	One of the causes of hydrocephalus is Bickers-Adams syndrome. This is an X-linked hydrocephalus responsible for 7% of cases in males. It is marked by stenosis of the aqueduct of Sylvius, severe mental retardation, and in 50% by an adduction-flexion deformity of the thumb.
16520	Hydrocephalus is caused by the obstruction of the brain tissues due to an overflow of cerebrospinal fluid within the brain.
16521	Causes include: blockage of the urinary system present at birth (congenital); a kidney or ureteral stone (nephrolithiasis); a blood clot; scarring of the ureter, usually from injury, radiation therapy or previous surgery; a tumor in or around the ureter; prostate gland enlargement (benign prostatic hyperplasia); and pregnancy.
16522	Medical professionals indicate that aquaphobia may show itself in a person through their specific experiences or due to biological factors. Some people may develop the phobia as a reaction to a traumatic water experience, like a near drowning or other such event. Others may have failed to have gained experience in the water through casual events like swimming or boating events due to cultural factors. Other individuals may suffer from an "instinctive reaction" to the water which comes separate from any observable factors. They have a gut reaction that limits their fundamental comfort level in any sort of casual water activities.
16523	Hydrops fetalis typically stems from fetal anemia, when the heart needs to pump a much greater volume of blood to deliver the same amount of oxygen. This anemia can come from either an immune or non-immune cause. Non-immune hydrops can also be unassociated to anemia, for example if a tumor or congenital cystic adenomatoid malformation increases the demand for blood flow. Another cause is isoimmunization (hemolytic disease of the newborn, erythroblastosis).
16524	The main cause of hydrosyringomyelia is still under study. The condition however is linked with intracranial pressure due to cerebrospinal fluids, and Chiari malformation.
16525	The inflammation is caused by the body's reaction to hydroxyapatite crystals that form out of the bones. These crystals thus cause friction in the surrounding tissues such as tendons and ligaments.
16526	Humans and other animals become infected when they intentionally or unintentionally eat material contaminated by parasites. In an infected person, it is possible for the worm's entire life-cycle to be completed inside the bowel, so infection can persist for years. Hymenolepis nana infections are much more commonly-found than Hymenolepis diminuta infections in humans because, in addition to being spread by insects, the disease can be spread directly from person to person by eggs in feces. When this happens, H nana oncosphere larvae encyst in the intestinal wall and grow into cysticercoids and then adults.
16527	HIES is an autosomal dominant disorder.
16528	The syndrome is said to be caused by gene mutations of the coding mevalonate kinase, which is an essential enzyme for the synthesis of cholesterol. The method by which the abnormality generates the syndrome is unknown.
16529	It is not known what causes this disorder, but some possibilites include brain abnormalities, natural brain chemicals, androgens, and changes in the brain's circuitry.
16530	The abnormally high levels of cortisol in hyperadrenalism patients are caused by a number of factors - including pituitary adenoma (as in Cushing's disease), adrenal hyperplasia or neoplasia, ectopic adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) production, and iatrogenic. Cortisol is commonly released from the adrenal gland in response to the pituitary gland releasing ACTH.
16531	Hyperaldosteronism most commonly results in the invasion of high levels of adenoma. The terms "primary" and "secondary" are often used to describe the level and/or type of abnormality in Hyperaldosteronism. Primary Hyperaldosteronism is the condition wherein the defect is caused directly by the gland that generates aldosterone. In contrast, secondary Hyperaldosteronism indirectly results through a predictable physiological pathway. For example, a tumor that produces rennin may increase aldosterone levels. This is because rennin levels normally regulate the aldosterone production in the body.
16532	Hyperammonemia has multiple causes, generally as a result of enzyme deficiencies in the urea cycle. Primary hyperammonemia results from several inborn abnormalities of the metabolism caused by low activities of enzymes in the urea cycle. Secondary hyperammonemia, on the other hand, results in inborn metabolic errors caused by abnormally low activities of enzymes outside the urea cycle. Examples of this are Propionic acidemia and Methylmalonic acidemia. Secondary hyperammonemia is often caused by the metabolic cell dysfunctions.
16533	Hyperandrogenism is a complex disorder, and no specific cause has been identified for patients. However, recent research indicates that hyperandrogenism - and in particular Polycystic Ovary Syndrome - may be caused by resistance to insulin. A large percentage of hyperandrogenism patients demonstrate insulin resistance. This disorder may also be genetically rooted. Though no specific gene has been identified in direct relation to hyperandrogenism, further studies are currently being done to explore this concept. To date, it is believed that several genes may contribute to the occurrence of hyperandrogenism. In addition, diabetes and obesity are both correlated to this endocrine disorder.
16534	Bilirubin is excreted by the placenta during pregnancy. When the mother gives birth, the infant's liver must take over the function of bilirubin excretion. But sometimes, the baby is unable to properly excrete the substance. Physiological jaundice may result as a normal reaction the infant's limited ability to excrete bilirubin. Breast milk jaundice may occur as a result of low calorie intake or dehydration. Jaundice from hemolysis is possible when the baby's red blood cells break down as a result of a hemolytic disease (Rh disease) or bleeding. Jaundice related to liver defects may also develop due to infections and other factors.
16535	Excessive calcium levels in the blood may be caused by high skeletal calcium release, over-absorption of intestinal calcium, or a marked decrease in the excretion of renal calcium. A majority of recorded hypercalcaemia cases are associated with hyperparathyroidism and malignancy. Abnormal parathyroid gland function resulting from either primary hyperparathyroidism, lithium use, or familial hypocalciuric hypercalcemia/familial benign hypercalcaemia, is also a leading cause. Often, a malignant tumor with metastasis (such as breast cancer, for instance) can also lead to hypercalcaemia.
16536	Causes for hypercholesterolemia include: diabetes mellitus and metabolic syndrome, kidney disease or nephrotic syndrome, hypothyroidism, anorexia nervosa, zieve's syndrome, family history (in the case of familial hypercholesterolemia), and unhealthy diets. An excessive consumption of saturated fat increases cholesterol in the blood. Consequently, obesity or excess body weight is a major risk factor. A low-fat diet and losing weight can significantly decrease cholesterol levels. In addition, regular physical exercise can also help manage LDL (bad cholesterol) and raise HDL (good cholesterol).
16537	Abnormally high levels of lipid can accelerate atherosclerosis, or the process of hardening of the arteries. Normally, the arteries are unobstructed and smooth. But as people age, the arterial wall becomes lined with plaque, a sticky substance made up of lipids and other materials. As plaque accumulates, the arteries may narrow and eventually stiffen. An excess of plaque, i.e. lipids, thus reduce the flow of blood through the arteries. In Hyperchylomicronemia patients, this process is more likely to occur much earlier in life. An unhealthy lifestyle and a fatty diet are believed to be the main culprits of Hyperchylomicronemia. Obesity, lack of physical exercise, and smoking are some of the contributing factors. Conditions such as diabetes, kidney disease, pregnancy, and an under-active thyroid gland also often develop into Hyperchylomicronemia. Additionally, Hyperchylomicronemia may have genetic roots. In cases where patients have normal body weight, the cause was determined to have been hereditary.
16538	Cushing's syndrome can develop from a cause that originates outside of the body (exogenous Cushing's syndrome). Taking corticosteroid medications in high doses over an extended period of time may lead to Cushing's syndrome. These medications, such as prednisone, dexamethasone (Decadron) and methylprednisolone (Medrol), have the same effects as does the cortisol produced by one's body.
16539	The condition is caused by rapidly increasing estrogen levels as pregnancy progresses.
16540	Hypereosinophilic syndrome has no recognizable cause, evidence suggests that there's a connection with chronic eosinophilic leukemia because it shows comparable genetic defects and traits.
16541	The disease is said to be caused by mutations in a gene found in chromosome 5. The defective gene is inherited, occurring through dominant autosomal transmission. The mutations leads to the symptoms of the syndrome.
16542	The condition can be caused by two factors: diabetes mellitus and eating disorders. Chronic hyperglycemia is often due to diabetes mellitus, where insulin levels are low that inhibit glucose transport therefore causing high levels of glucose in blood. Some eating disorders may also produce 'acute non-diabetic hyperglycemia', such as consuming huge amounts of calories from food at once.
16543	The condition is caused by high levels of blood sugar in the body; diabetics are prone to this condition.
16544	Unusually high levels of glycine cause the disorder. The abnormal high level results from shortage of an enzyme that usually breaks down the body's glycine, resulting to glycine buildup in organs and tissues, especially the brain.
16545	The exact cause of hyperhidrosis is unknown. A theory states that the condition results from a very active 'sympathetic nervous system'. Anxiety is also said to exacerbate the condition for most affected individuals. Other factors that may play a role in the disorder include nicotine, food and drinks, caffeine, and even smells that trigger a reaction.
16546	Hyperhomocysteinemia is caused by several factors, including folate deficiency, vitamin B12 deficiency, vitamin B6 deficiency, cystathionine beta-synthase deficiency, and methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase deficiency.
16548	Some of the main causes of Hyperkalemia includes kidney dysfunction, adrenal glands diseases, medications, and potassium that sifts out of the cells and into blood circulation.
16549	Resting after exercise, too much potassium in the diet, fatigue and stress, periods of fasting, as well as certain pollutants may trigger HYPP attacks. Cigarette smoke has also been identified to play a causal role. A mutation in the SCN4A gene has been pinpointed as a possible cause for Hyperkalemic Periodic Paralysis. This particular gene is responsible for directing the production of a type of protein that is important in muscle movement. For mobility to return to normal, affected muscles must contract and relax in a coordinated way.
16550	The condition is caused by metabolic defects in the blood.
16551	Most research suggests that all autism spectrum disorders have shared genetic mechanisms, but AS may have a stronger genetic component than autism. There is a probable common group of genes where particular alleles render an individual vulnerable to developing AS; if this is the case, the particular combination of alleles would determine the severity and symptoms for each individual with AS.
16553	Hypermagnesemia is an effect of renal failure, massive hemolysis and other metabolic problems such as adrenal insufficiency and diabetic ketoacidosis.
16554	Causes may be because of abnormal blood clotting, disruption of normal hormonal regulation of periods or disorders of the endometrial lining of the uterus.
16555	Hypermobility syndrome is caused by misaligned joints as well as collagen defects that involve the tendons and ligaments.
16556	Hypernatremia is usually caused by inadequate intake of water, unnecessary excretion of water, drinking hypertonic liquids such as seawater, and mineralcorticoid excess.
16557	If the cornea or lens isn't evenly and smoothly curved, light rays aren't refracted properly, and there is a refractive error. Farsightedness is one kind of refractive error. It occurs when the cornea is curved too little or the eye is shorter than normal. Instead of being focused precisely on the retina, light is focused behind the retina, resulting in a blurry appearance for close-up objects.
16558	High levels of oxalate in blood mainly cause Hyperoxaluria. Excessive oxalate can be the result of different factors including genetic defect, diet, altered transport mechanism of the oxalate, fat malabsorption, and other diseases.
16559	Primary hyperparathyroidism, the first class of hyperparathyroidism, is brought about by the hyperfunction of the parathyroid glands themselves. PTH is oversecreted as a result of hyperplasia, adenoma, or carcinoma of the parathyroid glands. Meanwhile, secondary hyperparathyroidism results when the parathyroid glands react to a hypocalcemia caused by a factor other than a parathyroid pathology. For example, chronic renal failure may trigger this condition. Lastly, tertiary hyperparathyroidism is caused by the excessive secretion of PTH following an extended period of secondary hyperparathyroidism that results in hypercalcemia.
16560	One of the causes of post-inflammatory hyperpigmentation is the release and oxidation of arachidonic acid to leukotrienes, prostaglandins and other products is due to the inflammatory responses of the epidermal skin layer to disease or trauma, where they may alter the activity of immune cells and melanocytes. Known as epidermal hypermelanosis, melanocytes produce more melanin (skin colour pigment), which is transferred to surrounding keratinocytes (skin cells). Dermal hypermelanosis is also another cause, which is a deeper pigmentation that occurs when inflammation disrupts the basal cell layer (the bottom of the epidermis), causing melanin pigment to be released into the paipillary dermis (the top part of the dermis), and the pigment may be trapped by large immune cells called tissue macrophages.
16562	Hyperprolactinaemia may often result from either the compression of the pituitary stalk and reduced dopamine levels, or from the overproduction of prolactinoma (a pituitary gland adenoma tumour). Studies indicate that a potassium channel opener called Minoxidil may be related to the development of this condition. Pregnancy, breastfeeding, and stress may also cause this disorder to develop. In addition, the ingestion of certain prescription drugs can play a causal role. Examples of such drugs include tranquilizers, trifluoperazine, haloperidol, and some antipsychotic medications, among others.
16563	Most often, patients with hyperprolinemia Type I do not exhibit any symptoms. HOwever, their blood's proline levels are found to be 3 to 10 times more than the normal amount or level. There are certain instances though that some patients manifest certain symptoms such as mental retardation, seizures, and other psychiatric or neurological problems. Those suffering from Type II possess blood proline levels of up to 10 to 15 times more than what is normal. This type comes with symptoms that differ in severity. Type II patients are also more likely to experience mental retardation or seizeures than the Type I patients.
16564	Hyperreflexia is commonly caused by an injury in the spinal cord or severe brain trauma. In hyperreflexia affected patients, even standard stimuli can trigger an excessive reaction from the nervous system. A simple stimulus like filling of the bladder, for example, may bring about an overactive reflex from the brain. Other causes have also been identified to contribute to hyperreflexia. Some causal factors include side effects of drugs and some stimulants, electrolyte imbalance, and severe brain trauma. Hypernatraemia, preeclampsia, portal hypertension, tetanus, renal syndrome, strokes, and tumors are also known causes of hyperreflexia.
16565	It is not known what causes this disorder, but some possibilites include brain abnormalities, natural brain chemicals, androgens, and changes in the brain's circuitry.
16566	Hypersomnia is caused by other sleep disorders such as sleep apnea and narcolepsy. It can also be due to a dysfunction in autonomic nervous system, and sometimes, physical problems such as trauma, tumors and substance abuse.
16567	There are a number of causes pf hypertension since some ailments may produce hypertension as one of the leading symptoms. It can be due to an abnormality in one of the intrenal organs. It can also be an acquired through the years by poor eating and too much salt in the diet as well as the advnacement fo age. Obesity and hereditary factors can also come into play.
16568	The cause of pregnancy-related hypertension is not known. Some conditions may increase the risk of developing PIH, including the following: pre-existing hypertension (high blood pressure); kidney disease; diabetes; pregnancy-related hypertension with a previous pregnancy; mother's age younger than 20 or older than 40; or multiple fetuses (twins, triplets).
16569	Hypertensive heart disease is caused by conditions such as congestive heart failure, cardiac arrhythmias and coronary heart disease.
16570	Sustained hypertension often targets the retina (along with other organs). When a patient is exposed to excessive long-term hypertension, the small blood vessels in the eye become damaged. These vessels also thicken, bulge, or leak.
16571	Severe sun exposure is one of the underlying causes of hyperthermia that causes the overheating of the body. Infants may prove to be highly susceptible to hyperthermia as they are still unable to regulate body temperature on their own. Excessive physical exercise may also be a cause as well as possible ill-effects to certain types of medications.
16572	Hyperthyroidism is primarily the result of an excessive production of the thyroid hormone that causes an overactive growth of height as well as an increased speed of intestines and body organs. The thyroid hormone is also the gland that controls the digestive system as well as regulates body control.
16573	Hypertrichosis is a hair growth variation brought about by genetic factors.
16574	In patients with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy, there is a disruption of the normal alignment of muscle cells, a condition known as myocardial disarray. HCM also disrupts the heart's electrical function. HCM is passed on to offsprings via autosomal dominancy, and believed to be the result of a mutation of one of many genes. A mutated myosin heavy chain, which is a component of the myocyte, is produced. The mutation of other genes associated with HCM include cardiac actin, cardiac troponin T, alpha-tropomyosin, cardiac troponin I, cardiac myosin-binding protein C, and the myosin light chains.
16575	Hypertropia may be a congenital or acquired condition. Misalignment is commonly a result of an imbalance in extra-ocular muscle function. The inferior rectus, the superior rectus, the superior oblique, and the inferior oblique are the muscles responsible for vertical movement of the eyes. In congenital cases, the abnormality may be due to an aberrant development of the muscle structure, such as muscle atrophy/hypertrophy or the absence and incorrect placement of the muscle. Common identified causes include: inferior oblique overaction, superior oblique palsy or congenital fourth nerve palsy, Duane's retraction syndrome, Brown's syndrome, double elevator palsy, Graves disease, or surgical trauma to the vertical muscles. A sudden onset of hypertropia in elderly or middle aged adults is attributed to the compression of the trochlear nerve and mass effects from a tumor. It may also be a result of an infraction of the blood vessels that supply the nerve due to atherosclerosis or diabetes.
16576	Hyperventilation is common among asthmatic persons. It can also arise to intense emotions such as crying, anxiety and laughing.
16577	An inherited disorder, Hyper IgM syndrome triggers a number of immunodeficiencies, or a state in which the immune system becomes too weak to fight infections. Hyper IgM syndrome is typically marked by low levels of neutrophil cells, which help fight infections in the body. As a result, individuals suffering from Hyper IgM syndrome are more prone to certain infectious diseases. Immunoglobulin M, or IgM, is basically an antibody produced by all healthy B cells. When exposed to a recognized antigen, B cells transform to a new class of antibodies to ward off viruses, bacteria, and other pathogens. For those with hyper IgM syndromes, their B cells are unable to switch to a different type of antibody, thus producing abnormally high IgM antibodies instead. In effect, their B Cells overproduce IgM and, consequently, underproduce all other kinds of antibodies. Variations of hyper-IgM syndromes include deficiencies in other immunoglobulin classes, such as IgA, IgG, and IgE.
16578	Hyphema can be a result of an eye injury or trauma. Tumors and growths can also lead to this condition.
16579	Hypoadrenalism often results from a deficiency of cortisol, a type of steroid hormone. If left untreated, cortisol deficiency may prove fatal. Primary hypoadrenalism, known popularly as Addison's disease, is caused by the failure of the adrenal glands themselves. The origins of this disorder are autoimmune in nature, which means that the immune system of affected patients produce antibodies that attack healthy tissues rather than the invading virus or bacteria. In primary hypoadrenalism, the antibodies damage and scar the adrenal cortex. Secondary hypoadrenalism, also called ACTH deficiency, results from diseases of the pituitary glands, leading to adrenal problems as a secondary effect.
16580	The main causes of hypoaldosteronism are hyporeninemic hypoaldosteronism, primary adrenal insufficiency or an adrenal enzyme defect and pseudohypoaldosteronism, a rare condition characterized by aldosterone resistance. Hypoaldosteronism may also be caused by primary adrenal insufficiency, congenital adrenal hyperplasia, and medications such as certain diuretics, NSAIDs, and ACE inhibitors.
16581	Hypocalcemia is usually caused by vitamin D deficiency or a parathyroid hormone deficiency or malfunction. Abnormally high or low magnesium levels can also trigger this condition. Other causes of hypocalcemia include eating disorders, extended use of some medications and laxatives and the absence of parathyroid hormone.
16582	A person suffering from hypochondria is preoccupied with physical health and has an unrealistic fear of serious disease well out of proportion to the actual risk. There is no specific cause of hypochondria, and it occurs to men and women with equal frequency.
16583	Hypochondriasis can be a complication of other psychiatric illnesses. A hypochondriac may be due to an ongoing manic depression sickness or an anxiety disorder.
16584	Hypochondrogenesis is caused by mutations in the gene known as COL2A1. This gene produces type II collage, a molecule essential in the formation and development of bones and other connective tissues.
16585	Hypochondroplasia is a congenital disorder. It is caused by a defect of a gene responsible for proper growth and development. The defect is caused by mutations in some part of this gene. This gene is important in activities such as cell division, differentiation and migration.
16586	Hypocortisolism occurs when the cortex is damaged and doesn't produce its hormones in adequate quantities. Doctors refer to the condition concerning damage to the adrenal glands as primary adrenal insufficiency. The failure of the adrenal glands to produce adrenocortical hormones is most commonly the result of the body attacking itself (autoimmune disease). For unknown reasons, the immune system views the adrenal cortex as foreign, something to attack and destroy.
16588	There are many possible causes of hypoglycemia and it can occur at any age. The most common cause of hypoglycemia, particularly of the severe kind, is the complication of insulin and some oral medications as treatment for diabetes mellitus.
16589	The symptoms of hypogonadism include fatigue or loss of energy, libido loss, bad mood and decline in muscle mass.
16590	It is most commonly focal and caused by local skin injury (like trauma, radiation, infection or inflammation) or by atrophy of glands from connective tissue disease (such as in scleroderma, SLE, Sjgren's syndrome). Hypohidrosis may be brought about by drugs, especially those with anticholinergic properties. It is also the result of diabetic neuropathy and a variety of congenital syndromes. Heatstroke causes insufficient sweating but is a CNS rather than a skin disorder
16591	Hypohidrotic ectodermal dysplasia is a congenital disease.
16592	When one eliminates more water and salts than is replaced, dehydration results - the system literally dries out. Sometimes dehydration occurs for simple reasons: You don't drink enough because you're sick or busy, or because you lack access to potable water when you're hiking, traveling or camping.
16593	The most obvious cause of hypokalemia may be insufficient consumption of potassium as a result of a low potassium diet. This is however a rare cause of hypokalemia. A more common cause is heavy loss of potassium due to heavy fluid loss. Individuals may lose potassium during vomiting, excessive perspiration, diarrhea or during surgical procedures. Some medicines such as diuretics and laxatives may also lead to heavy potassium loss. Diabetic ketoacidosis can also cause potassium loss though rarely. Other cause of hypokalemia are: hypomagnesia, high aldosterone levels resulting from certain diseases, congenital defects of the salt transporters to the kidneys, congenital defects of transporters and channels of ion in the muscles,
16595	The sensory overstimulation is caused by consumption of large amounts of carbohydrates, salt and the resting period after a strenuous activity. The reason why carbohydrates trigger the condition is because of the insulin released when carbohydrates is ingested. The release of insulin results in the uptake of potassium in the cells.
16596	The cause of hypolipoproteinemia can either be genetic or other conditions such as malnutrition and malabsorption of nutrients. Other diseases such as anemia, rare genetic conditions such as hypobetalipoproteinemia and abetalipoproteinemia and tangier disease can also cause hypolipoproteinemia.
16597	Most cases of hyponatremia are linked with reduced plasma osmolarity. In fact, the vast majority of adult cases are due to heightened vasopressin, that is, anti-diuretic hormone (ADH). Vasopressin is a hormone that results to retention of water, but not salt. Hence, the patient with hyponatremia can be seen as the patient with increased ADH activity. It is the physician's duty to identify the cause of the increased ADH activity in each case.
16598	One of the most recognized causes of hypoparathyroidism is the removal of the parathyroid glands during thyroid surgery. This has led to the cessation of the practice. Invasion and destruction of the autoimmune system is another major cause of hypoparathyroidism. Iron accumulation as a result of hemochromatosis can cause the dysfunction of a number of organs including the parathyroid. A congenital condition known as DiGeorge syndrome leads to hypoparathyroidism due a total absence of the parathyroid glands. Magnesium deficiency and other rare diseases can also cause hypoparathyroidism.
16599	Hypophosphatasia is inherited as an autosomal recessive condition. To be infected with this disease, the individual must have two copies of the gene carrying it, or one from each parent.
16599	Hypophosphatasia is a rare inherited disorder characterized by defective bone and teeth mineralization, and deficiency of serum and bone alkaline phosphatase activity. The prevalence of severe kind of the disease has been estimated at 1/100 000.
16600	The cause of post inflammatory hypopigmentation is any condition that provokes an inflammatory response.
16601	Hypopituitarism can either be acquired or congenital. Congenital hypopituitarism is often caused by a single gene defect of the pituitary gland. While acquired hypopituitarism can be caused by surgery, trauma in the skull area, tumor, radiation, inflammation, shock or other diseases. In children, hypopituitarism is usually caused by an infection or injury or by a benign tumor in the pituitary gland. Often though, the exact cause of hypopituitarism cannot be determined.
16602	Many experts believe that HLHS is caused by genetic factors.
16603	Hypoprothrombinaemia can either be congenital or acquired. It may be caused by a genetic defect, adverse effects of certain medicines or may result from another disease. Systemic lupus is one of the diseases that may cause hypoprothrombinaemia because of the presence of antibodies that binds and removes prothrombin from the bloodstream. The deficiency in prothrombin may be caused by deficiency in vitamin K,anticoagulant medications or severe liver disease. The drug quinine may also cause hypoprothrombinaemia The use of antibiotics or antimicrobial therapy can also cause this condition due to the tendency of these drugs to kill intestinal bacteria which is a possible source of vitamin K.
16605	Though it is rarely inherited, hypospadias can still stem from genetics. In most cases though, the cause cannot be identified. Some experts though believe that hypospadias is caused by inadequate androgen as a result of exposure to various environmental agents such as chemicals.
16606	Hyposplenism may be congenital or acquired. Congenital hyposplenism are often caused genetic disorders or if the mother is exposure to environmental factors during pregnancy. Acquired hyposplenism may be caused by a trauma to the spleen, when functions of the spleen are stopped to combat a disease, diseases that destroy the spleen.
16607	Causes of hypotension due to heart disease are; weakened heart muscle can cause the heart to fail and reduce the amount of blood it pumps. Pericarditis is the inflammation of the pericardium (the sac surrounding the heart).
16608	The symptoms of hypothalamic disorder depend on the hormones that are lacking. Headaches may be felt if there is a tumor present. Children with this condition may experience growth problems. Hypothalamic dysfunction may lead to hypothyroidism therefore causing fatigue, weight gain, cold intolerance and changes in the skin and hair. Women may experience menstrual imbalance, breast enlargement and loss of body hair. Men may also experience some of these symptoms plus loss of muscle mass and impotence.
16609	This disease is caused by mutations in the GLI3 gene, responsible for producing a protein that regulates gene expression. GLI3 plays an important role in the development and shaping of many organs and tissues. This disease can be inherited from an infected parent.
16610	The symptoms of hypothermia depends on its severity. Mild or stage 1 hypothermia occurs when the body temperature drops by 1-2 . Mild hypothermia causes strong shivering and inability to use the hands.Breathing during mild hypothermia also becomes shallow and quick. Stage 2 hypothermia sets in when the patient feels a warm sensation and when the body's temperature drops by 2-4  . In this stage, the patient already finds it difficult to move. In stage 3 hypothermia, body temperature drops to approximately 32 C. In this stage, difficulty in speaking, slow thinking and even amnesia may be experienced.
16612	The symptoms of hypothyroidism is similar to the symptoms of other medical conditions. This is because thyroid hormone have many functions. It modulates the metabolism of carbohydrates, protein and fat, utilization of vitamins, digestive process, mitochondrial functions, nerve and muscle activity, oxygen utilization, blood flow, hormone secretion and sexual and reproductive health. This is why the thyroid is very important. The symptoms of hypothyroidism include fatigue, poor muscle tone, constipation, intolerance to cold, weight gain, having thin and brittle fingernails, muscle cramps and joint pain, having thin, brittle hair, having dry, itchy skin and paleness.
16613	Hypotrichosis is caused by a number of factors. Some of the causes of this condition include infection or inflammation of the hair follicles, hereditary hair follicle dysplasias, neoplastic destruction and irradiation. Hallermann-Streiff syndrome often causes this condition.
16614	Hypertropia results from an imbalance in the extraocular muscle functions of the eye. The condition can either be congenital or acquired. Cases of congenital hypotropia is caused by abnormal eye muscle structure which include muscle atrophy/hypertrophy or, in rare cases, incorrect placement or absence of the muscles. Other causes of hypotropia include inferior oblique overaction, superior oblique overaction, Duane's Retraction Syndrome, Brown's Syndrome, fibrosis of rectus muscle in Graves Disease, double elevator palsy and surgical trauma. When it occurs in middle age, hypertropia maybe caused by compression of the trochlear nerve and mass effect from a growth. This condition requires immediate brain imaging through MRI. Hypertropia in middle age may also be a result of infraction of blood vessels supplying nerves.
16615	The term hypoxia can also refer to the following conditions:
16616	Hysteria is caused by a number of reasons. It may be due to their ongoing mental disorders, or can be a result of the medications given for treatment. Others meanwhile are triggered by traumatic experiences in the past.
16617	ICF Syndrome can be caused by Bloom's syndrome, Non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, Chronic granulomatous disease, Efalizumab and Autoimmune polyendocrine syndrome type 1.
16618	The cause of Ichthyophobia may be a conditioned fear of fish, particularly gold fish, set during infancy by an adult. Individual who suffer from Ichthyophobia recognize the fear as being intense.
16619	Ichthyosis vulgaris is an inherited disease. There is also an acquired but rare version of this condition called acquired ichthyosis vulgaris.
16620	Jaundice is a result of increased production of bile fluids by the liver. It is a common symptom of major organ diseases such as hepatitis and liver failure. Jaundice is also caused by the destruction of hemoglobin found in the red blood cells due to bile contamination.
16621	ICU psychosis can be an after-effect of someone who underwent treatment at a hospital's ICU.
16622	The cause of idiopathic eosinophilic pneumonia is unknown.
16623	Unknown that is why it is classified as idiopathic.
16624	Traditional theories have suggested that it might be an autoimmune disorder, or the after effects of an infection, viral in nature. There is an increasing body of evidence which points to a genetic predisposition. A mutation in the SP-C protein has been known to exist in families with a history of Pulmonary Fibrosis. The most common thinking is that the fibrotic process is a reaction to microscopic injury to the lung.
16626	The exact cause of idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura is not known. This is why it's referred to as idiopathic, meaning "of unknown cause." Scientists do know, however, that with ITP, the immune system malfunctions and begins attacking platelets as if they were foreign substances.
16627	IgA deficiency is genetic, which means it's passed down through families. It may be passed on as an autosomal dominant or autosomal recessive trait. It is found in approximately 1 in 700 individuals of European descent. It is less commonly found in people of other ethnicities.
16628	Ileitis can be a result of various digestive disorders. Stomach ulcers can produce inflammations in the ileum, as well as harmful substances such as alcohol. Overeating can also stress the small intestine leaving it damaged.
16629	Iliotibial Band Syndrome is the result of poor training habits, equipment and anatomical abnormalities. Running on a banked surface bends the downhill leg slightly inward and causes extreme stretching of the band against femur, inadequate warm-up or cool-down, Increasing distance to quickly or excessive downhill running.
16630	Iliotibial band syndrome can be a result of a thigh injury, or when heavy weight has caused pressure on the limbs.
16631	The cause is not known, although several mechanisms have been suggested. This includes hyperthermia of the fetus, fetal vascular compromise, prenatal virus, septum of the uterus, decreased amniotic fluid, muscle and connective tissue developmental abnormalities. In general, the causes can be grouped into extrinsic and intrinsic factors.
16632	A primary cause of wisdom tooth impaction is simply that there is not enough jawbone space behind the person's second molar. Why this lack of space exists is not fully understood nor known, however there does seem to be a correlation between large tooth size, tooth crowding, and the presence of impacted wisdom teeth.
16634	The malformations are caused by abnormal development of the fetus, and many are linked with other birth defects. Imperforate anus is a relatively widespread congenital malformation that occurs in about 1 out of 5,000 infants.
16636	Impetigo is commonly caused by the same streptococcus strain that causes strep throat, Streptococcus pyogenes. It can also be caused by Staphylococcus aureus.
16637	Impingement syndrome is usually caused by stress incurred during strenuous activities. It can also be brought about by injuries, or when the muscles of the rotator cuff brush against the shoulder blades, causing pain.
16639	The physical causes of impotence are; post-surgical side effects, accidental injuries to the penis or testicles, spin or pelvic area, Vascular trauma, birth defects, diseases and conditions like Diabetes, flu, chronic renal failure, liver disease. Another cause is drug abuse- recreational use or regular chronic over use of addictive drug such as cocaine, heroin, and amphetamines.
16640	Aminoacidura results from the overflow of elevated plasma concentrations of certain amino acids in the presence of liver disease.
16641	Diet or stress (from intercurrent illness, trauma, surgery, or immunization) may result to episodic decompensation.
16642	Sporadic inclusion body myositis is a rare disease, and its causes are currently unknown. Several researchers have speculated, however, that this condition results from the interaction of a number of genetic and environmental factors. One theory postulates that the inflammation or immune reaction is caused by a viral or autoimmune trigger. This unknown trigger may be the proximal cause of the disease, whereas the degeneration of muscle fibers and protein abnormalities are just secondary reactions. Another theory posits that sIMB is mainly degenerative and is brought about by the aging of the muscle fibers. Advocates of this theory believe that abnormal, potentially pathogenic protein deposits in myofibers are the primary cause of the disease, emphasizing the abnormal accumulation of proteins in cells, the aggregation and misfolding of many proteins, the inhibition of proteosome, and ER (endoplasmic reticulum) stress as causal factors.
16643	Inclusion conjunctivitis in the newborn arises from passage through an infected birth canal and develops 5-14 days after birth. Both the eyelids and conjunctivae are swollen. There may be a discharge of pus from the baby's eyes. Most instances of adult inclusion conjunctivitis arise from exposure to infected genital secretions. It is passed on to the eye by fingers and occasionally by the water in swimming pools, poorly chlorinated hot tubs, or by sharing makeup.
16644	Incontinence is not an inevitable result of aging, but is particularly frequent in older people. It is often caused by specific changes in body function that may arise from diseases, use of medications, and/or the onset of an illness.
16645	Most of IP cases are caused by a deletion in the NEMO gene. An estimated one half of all cases are spontaneous mutations. Most of the new mutations arise in the germline cells in the father's gonads.
16646	The most common causes of indigestion are eating too much spicy and fatty food, eating quickly, alcohol and stress. Indigestion can be a symptom for other digestive problems such as heartburn, peptic ulcer, gastritis, gallstones and stomach cancer.
16647	The biggest risk factor for RDS is prematurity. Other risk factors include maternal diabetes, cesarean delivery, and asphyxia. Not all premature infants end up developing RDS.
16648	Infantile paralysis is caused by the polio virus. The virus thrives in unsanitary places such as sewers and can be transmitted from one person to another through contact with one's saliva or feces.
16649	It is still unknown which bio-chemical mechanisms results to the occurrence of West syndrome. It is conjectured that it is a malfunction of the neurotransmitter function, or more exactly, a malfunction in the regulation of the GABA transmission process. Another theory being researched is a hyper-production of the Corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH). It is possible that more than one factor is concerned. Both hypotheses are supported by the effect of certain medications used to treat infantile spasms.
16650	Many hypotheses had been suggested to explain the motor neuron degeneration observed in SMAs. The hypotheses include (1) arrested development of spinal cord during fetal life with degeneration of surviving motor neurons, (2) abnormal neuronal RNA and oxidative enzyme metabolism, (3) prominent glial proliferation in the proximal portion of the anterior spinal roots with secondary neuronal degeneration, (4) lack or inhibition of muscle-derived neuronal growth factors, (5) impaired muscle maturation, (6) abnormal apoptosis (programmed cell death), and (7) various adverse environmental influences.
16651	In general, infectious arthritis is the result of the spread of a bacterial, viral, or fungal infection through the bloodstream to the joint. The disease agents may enter the joint directly from the outside as a consequence of an injury or a surgical procedure, or they may be carried to the joint by the blood from infections elsewhere in the body. The specific organisms differ somewhat according to age group. Newborns are most likely to acquire gonococcal infections of the joints from a mother infected with gonorrhea. Children may also acquire infectious arthritis from a hospital environment, usually as a result of catheter placement.
16652	The organisms that cause NIE apparently are related to the type of underlying bacteremia. The gram-positive cocci (ie, S aureus, CONS, enterococci, nonenterococcal streptococci) are the most commonly-found pathogens.
16653	Some women are infertile because their ovaries do not mature and release eggs. During this case synthetic FSH by injection or Clomid (Clomiphene citrate) via a pill can be given to stimulate follicles to mature in the ovaries. While for men the factors that can cause infertility are genetics such as Robertsonian translocation in either partner may cause recurrent spontaneous abortions or complete infertility. However, general factors are like diabetes mellitus, thyroid disorder and adrenal disease.
16654	Medical research hasn't determined yet what causes inflammatory bowel disease. But based from researchers they believe that a number of factors may be involved, such as the environment, diet, and possibly genetics.
16655	In inflammatory breast cancer, the abnormal cells quickly infiltrate and clog the lymphatic vessels in the skin over your breast. The blockage in the lymphatic vessels results to red, swollen and dimpled skin - a classic sign of inflammatory breast cancer.
16656	Influenza viruses are grouped into three types, designated A, B, and C. Influenza types A and B are responsible for epidemics of respiratory illness that arise almost every winter and are often associated with increased rates of hospitalization and death.
16657	Ingrown toenails result when the nail grows into the flesh of the toes, often the big toe. Common causes include wearing shows that crowd the toenails, cutting the toenailes too short or not straight across, injury to the toenail, and thickening of the toenails.
16658	Some inguinal hernias have no obvious cause. But many happen as a result of increased pressure within the abdomen, a pre-existing weak spot in the abdominal wall or a combination of the two. In men, the weak spot typically occurs along the inguinal canal. This is the area where the spermatic cord, which contains the vas deferens, enters the scrotum. In women, the inguinal canal carries a ligament that helps hold the uterus in place, and hernias sometimes arise where connective tissue from the uterus attaches to tissue surrounding the pubic bone.
16659	Most inguinal hernias have no particular cause though many happen as a result of elevated pressure in the abdomen. In men, the inguinal canal where the spermatic cord is located that has the vas deferens enters the scrotum. Extra pressure in the abdomen can cause hernia such as straining while moving bowel or urinating, when lifting heavy objects, due to fluid in the abdomen and pregnancy or gain weight. Chronic coughing or sneezing can also cause muscles in the abdomen to tear.
16660	Probable causes of insomnia are; psychoactive drugs or stimulants, including certain medications, herbs, caffeine, ephedrine, emphetamines, MDMA, methamphetamine and madofinil. Hormone shifts such as those that precede menstruation and those during menopause stage. Emotional problems like fear, stress, anxiety, emotional or mental tension, work problems, financial stress, unsatisfactory sex life . Mental disorders such as clinical depression, schizophrenia, bipolar disorder, primary anxiety disorder
16661	The cause of the vast majority of cases of insulin resistance remains unknown. However, there are some grounds for suspecting that insulin resistance is connected to a high-carbohydrate diet. Insulin resistance is also been linked to PCOS (polycystic ovary syndrome) as either causing it or being caused by it.
16662	The gene of MEN, an autosomal dominant disease, is known as MEN1 and maps to band 11q13. MEN1 is thought to act as a tumor suppressor gene.
16663	Intercostal neuralgia is caused by a twisted nerve in the thoracic area.
16664	The main cause of intermittent claudication is when fats (called plaques) enter the arteries during physical exercise. These plaques block the passage of blood in the arteries thus signaling pain and numbness.
16665	The majority of cases occur when the individual is between late adolescence and late twenties. There are some evidence that the neurotransmitter serotonin may play a role in this disorder.
16666	This process is caused by other severe diseases, or physical abuse such as being beaten up. In this stage the blood is has grown so weak it cannot sustain clots to repair damaged blood vessels.
16667	The cause of interstitial cystitis is not known, though several theories have been put forward (these include autoimmune, allergic, neurologic, and genetic). Regardless of the origin, it is obvious that the majority of IC patients struggle with a damaged urothelium, or bladder lining.
16668	Determining the cause of injury to the lung tissue is not easy because of the variety of causable factors that may contribute to the development of the disease. Possible causes of Interstitial Lung Disease may include long-term exposure to occupational and environmental toxins, infections, radiations, drugs, connective tissue disorders, and malignancy. There are also ILD cases, which have are considered as Idiopathic or no known cause, while some are drug-stimulated causes.
16669	Where two skin surfaces rub or press against each other, intertrigo tends to occur in warm, moist areas of the body, commonly seen in obese individuals. People who are restricted to bed rest or in those who wear medical devices that may trap moisture against the skin such as splints, braces or artificial limbs may be cause to this condition.
16670	Intestinal adhesions may be present at birth but can also appear after abdominal surgery.
16671	Intestinal flu is caused by a variety of reasons, such as rotaviruses, adenoviruses and astroviruses. It is, however, not caused by bacteria or parasites.
16672	Most of the time, acute intestinal ischemia is the result of a blood clot that forms in the heart and then travels to one of the intestinal arteries. Other times a blood clot may develop in a vein leading away from the intestines, reducing the outflow of deoxygenated blood. Sometimes intestinal ischemia occurs due to a portion of the intestine becomes trapped due to a hernia (strangulated hernia) or due to adhesions from a previous abdominal surgery. Other times it occurs due to heart failure or low blood pressure.
16673	The cause of Whipple's disease is infection with the bacterium Tropheryma whippelii, also called Whipple bacillus. This bacterium can initially affect the mucosal lining of the small intestine, forming small lesions within the intestinal wall. With time, the infection can spread to other parts of the body.
16674	The disease is a complication of other gastrointestinal and rectal anomalies. It can also be an effect of substance abuse that causes injuries to normal blood supply, as well as metabolic disturbances.
16675	IF the cause is not known the condition is called primary intestinal pseudo-obstruction. If the cause is determined the condition is called secondary intestinal pseudo-obstruction where in causes include pelvic or abdominal surgery, diseases that affect nerves and muscles, infections like lupus erythematosus and medications like opiates.
16676	Intestinal pseudo-obstruction may be caused by underlying problems in the nerves supplying the gut. Problems originating from the intestinal smooth muscles are also considered as probable cause for primary intestinal pseudo-obstruction. A certain chronic skin disease, scleroderma with manifestations of impaired esophageal motility may also cause secondary intestinal pseudo-obstruction along with other disorders including chronic renal failure, muscular dystrophy, and hypokalemia. Some anticholinergic drugs can also cause this disease.
16677	The cause of intracranial bleeding (hemorrhage) is an injury to the head, often as a result of an automobile or motorcycle accident or a seemingly trivial event, such as bumping the head. Mild head trauma is more likely to cause a hematoma if the patient is an older adult.
16678	The condition is usually caused by the leakage of spinal cerebrospinal fluid (CSF). A combination of an underlying weakness of the spinal meninges and a more or less trivial traumatic scene, such as riding a roller coaster or jet skiing, is often found to cause spontaneous intracranial hypotension.
16679	Researchers don't know exactly what leads to DCIS. Studies are ongoing exploring the interaction of genetics, environmental factors and hormonal exposures to fully understand why some women develop breast cancer and others don't.
16681	The exact cause of eye melanoma isn't known; however, it's not generally inherited. In recent years, scientists have developed a better understanding about the role that DNA plays in causing cells to turn cancerous.
16682	IGR is usually caused by underlying diseases present in the mother. Among these are hypertension, diabetes, heart and lung disease, as well as chronic anemia. Substance abuse and decrease of blood in the placenta are also factors that may lead to IGR.
16683	Intrauterine dwarfism is caused by a mutation on the gene's chromosome 7. It is usually maternally inherited.
16684	The exact causes of the disease are unknown, but studies show that it can be because of a genetic defect as well as a side-effect of the mother's activities during pregnancy.
16686	Iodine deficiency is usually the consequence from insufficient iodine intake from dietary sources like sea foods, green and leafy vegetables, and iodized table salt. It may also be due to rise in metabolic demand during adolescence, pregnancy, and lactation.
16688	Iridocyclitis usually occurs when the eye is subjected to direct chemical exposure, predominantly with agents triggering lacrimation. Some ocular viral infection like herpes zoster is a causative factor for Iridocyclitis; yet, there are still other medical conditions that can cause Iridocyclitis.
16689	Several medical conditions cause Iritis - rheumatoid arthritis, lupus, Crohn's disease, and ulcerative colitis to name a few. Individuals suffering from ankylosing spondylitis and other HLAB27 related diseases are at a higher risk of developing Iritis.
16690	Iron deficiency is caused by the body's increased need for iron, a mineral needed to fuel the blood towards the different body organs. Iron deficiency may be caused by problems during pregnancy, or when one doesn't consume adequate amounts of iron for a long period of time.
16691	Iron deficiency anemia is the most usual form of anemia. Approximately 20% of women, 50% of pregnant women, and 3% of men are iron deficient. Iron is the fundamental component of hemoglobin, the oxygen-carrying pigment in the blood.
16692	The causes can be separated between primary (generally genetic) and secondary (due to other conditions).
16693	Iron poisoning is caused by abnormal consumption of iron supplements. Iron supplements should only be taken to treat iron-deficiency anemia.
16694	Arrhythmias are caused by a variety of causes. Heart disease, respiratory problems as well as a sudden burst of emotions can lead to arrhythmias.
16695	The symptoms of overactive bladder occur in most cases due to the muscles of the bladder involuntarily contract when it's still filling and only about half full. This contraction develops the urgent need to urinate. The urinary sphincter may remain constricted and stop the bladder from emptying. If not, then a person goes through urge incontinence.
16696	Underlying conditions and situations that can cause Irritable Bowel Syndrome may include inflammation of the large intestine section of the gastrointestinal tract. Lactose Intolerance or difficulty in properly digesting milk or other lactose containing product like dairy can possibly cause this medical condition. Emotional Stress can also contribute to the development of Irritable Bowel Syndrome; anxiety and depression precisely. Prolonged fever and history of acute gastrointestinal infection can also cause and trigger the condition.
16698	The condition is usually due to disrupted blood flow to the colon that interferes with normal functions. The condition may sometimes be caused by other medical conditions including inflammation of the blood vessels, easy blood clotting, radiation treatment to the abdomen, thrombosis in the arteries and veins, or abdominal surgery.
16699	Itchy skin that isn't accompanied by other obvious skin changes, such as a rash, is most often the result of by dry skin (xerosis). Dry skin often results from environmental factors that can be wholly or partially controlled. These include hot or cold weather with low humidity levels, long-term use of air conditioning or central heating, and washing or showering too much.
16701	This reaction is caused by the secretion of the lacquer-like resin that contains substances which the body responds to. The resin can also be acquired through handling exposed pets and garden tools.
16702	Jackson-Weiss Syndrome is a gene-related disorder; it is caused by alterations in the Fibroblast Growth Factor Receptor 2 (FGFR2) gene. This gene is the source of the protein fibroblast growth factor receptor 2 that notify not fully formed cells to develop into bone cells in a developing embryo and fetus. A change in a particular part of this gene modifies the protein, preventing it to produce signals encouraging premature bone fusion in the feet and skull.
16704	Japanese Encephalitis is caused by a virus carried by the mosquito Culex tritaeniorhynchus and transferred to the person through mosquito bites.
16704	The disease is caused by the mosquite-borne Japanese encephalitis virus which belongs to the family Flaviviridae. The virus usually resides in domestic pigs and wild birds that can be transmitted to humans which can lead to serious symptoms.
16705	There is no known cause for Jarcho-Levin syndrome aside from the fact that it is a result of autosomal-recessive mode of inheritance.
16706	When red blood cells get old, they are destroyed. Hemoglobin, the iron containing chemical in red blood cells that carries oxygen, is released from the destroyed red blood cells after the iron it receives is removed. The chemical that remains in the blood after the iron is taken out and becomes bilirubin.
16708	Jejunal atresia is a congenital condition, meaning it is present at birth. The cause is unknown, but it is basically due to the malformed development of the bowel during the early stages of pregnancy.
16709	Jervell and Lange-Nielsen syndrome is caused by changes in the nucleotide sequence (mutation) in the KCNE1 and KNCQ1 genes; the function of these genes is critical in maintaining normal inner ear and cardiac muscle functions.
16711	The fungus that most commonly causes jock itch is called Trichophyton rubrum. It also cause fungal infections of the toes and body. Under the microscope, the fungus looks like translucent, branching, rod-shaped filaments or hyphae. Therefore, wearing sweaty, wet clothing in the summer season or wearing several layers of clothing in the wintertime causes an increased incidence of jock itch. More often men are prone to this disease than women.
16713	Joseph disease is a rare genetic defect that occurred in the chromosome 14.
16718	Sweaty sock syndrome or juvenile plantar dermatosis is usually seen in ?atopic' children, that is, those who have asthma, atopic dermatitis (eczema) or hay fever, where their skin seems generally more sensitive than others. The cause of the condition may be related to friction. When the foot moves up and down in a shoe, especially when the foot is sweaty, friction is greater and the foot gets wetter in synthetic shoes such as vinyl or nylon and moves more in open sandals.
16720	There is no known single cause attributed to schizophrenia. It is believed that a chemical imbalance in the brain is an inherited factor which is required for schizophrenia to develop. However, it is likely that many factors - genetic, behavioral, and environmental - play a role in the development of this disorder.
16722	The probable underlying causes of Kallman syndrome with spastic paraplegia are the following conditions: chromosome 8p inverted duplication syndrome; mental retardation (X-linked), syndromic caused by mutation of JARID1C; macrocephaly; short stature; malformations of CNS; spastic paraplegia; oculocerebral syndrome with hypopigmentation; and the Roy-Maroteaux-Kremp syndrome.
16724	Kaposi's sarcoma is caused by the Human Herpes Virus 8.
16725	Karsch Neugebauer syndrome is a genetic disorder. One type of Karsch Neugebauer syndrome is particularly associated with the mutation of the seventh chromosome.
16726	Kartagener Syndrome is genetically inherited. Ciliary structures can either be missing or just plainly unable to function properly. Dysfunction of the cilia takes place during the embryologic phase of development.
16727	Kaufman Oculocerebrofacial syndrome is an idiopathic disorder; meaning it has no known cause. It is an autosomal recessive disease.
16728	Kawasaki syndrome is an idiopathic syndrome.
16729	Kearns-Sayre syndrome happens due to the 5,000 base deletion in the mitochondrial DNA.
16730	Physicians have not yet discovered the precise rationale why keloids develop in some individuals while others are not prone to having them; however, keloids usually develop after a surgical procedure or after a trauma like burns, acne, vaccination among others.
16731	Kennedy disease is primarily caused by spreading out of a CAG repeat in the first region of DNA (exon) of the androgen receptor gene.
16733	* Chronic ulcers * Previous history of skin cancer * Chronic exposure to ultraviolet rays and sunlight * Long standing scars
16734	This disease is caused by the following factors: * Inadequate tear production * Irregular tear composition * Aging because tear production diminishes with age * Abnormalities of the eyes or eyelids * Eye injury of any kind * People using contact lenses are prone to developing dry eyes * After an eye surgery like LASIK and refractive surgeries
16735	The cause of Keratoconus still remains to be unclear; though many studies claim that factors like genetic or cellular as well as environmental can contribute in triggering the disease.
16736	Pitted keratolysis is a condition caused by having sweaty feet, together with C. minutissimum and other bacteria which is characterized by malodour and pitting of the thick skin on the soles of the feet and might be misdiagnosed as a fungal infection sometimes.
16737	Keratosis, depending on the type, is caused by different reasons. Actinic keratosis is caused by too much exposure from the sun; Seborrheic keratosis meanwhile is benign and is caused by a defect in the growth factor receptor. Keratosis pilaris is a result of the accumulation of keratin within the hair follicles.
16738	Keratosis Pilaris is a genetic follicular condition.
16739	Seborrheic Keratosis has been linked to a mutation of a gene coding for a growth factor receptor (FGFR3).
16740	Usually presenting itself as raised, pus-filled and spongy lesions, a kerion is the result of the host's response to a fungal ringworm infection of the hair follicles of the scalp and beard accompanied by secondary bacterial infections.
16741	Kernicterus is caused by excessive levels of unconjugated-indirect bilirubin deposited in the basal ganglia; this occurs because bilirubin is fat-soluble and can't be emitted in the urine or bile. Due to this malfunction, excessive bilirubin flowed into extra vascular tissues and the brain.
16742	This disease is caused by mutations in the PCC genes that hinder the metabolic processes done by certain enzymes. As a result, the nutrients that is supposed to be metabolized mix with the blood and become toxic.
16743	As blood circulates through your kidneys, the nephrons filter out waste products as well as unneeded minerals and water. This liquid waste urine flows through two narrow tubes (ureters) into your bladder, where it is stored until it's eliminated from your body through another tube, the urethra.
16744	Kidney failure is caused by kidney diseases such as diabetes mellitus, and kidney inflammation called pyelonephritis.
16745	Acute kidney failure may be caused by urinary tract infections, accidental kidney damage, or drug abuse.
16746	Kidney infection typically occurs when bacteria enter your urinary tract through the urethra and begin to multiply. Bacteria from an infection in your body also can spread through your bloodstream to your kidneys.
16747	Kidney stones can be due to underlying metabolic conditions, such as renal tubular acidosis, Dent's disease and medullary sponge kidney. Several health facilities will screen for such disorders in patients with recurrent kidney stones. This is commonly done with a 24 hour urine collection that is chemically analyzed for deficiencies and excesses that promote stone formation.
16748	The causative factor for Kikuchi Disease has not yet been recognized.
16749	Malignant hyperthermia is inherited as an autosomal dominant disorder.
16750	The cause of mononucleosis is the Epstein-Barr virus, though similar signs and symptoms are sometimes caused by cytomegalovirus (CMV).
16751	There are concerns claiming that Kleine-Levin Syndrome is a product of an autoimmune disorder; others assume that this rare medical condition is of the hereditary nature. Although the two beliefs have their own rationale, there is still more weight on the explanation that this rare disorder is a consequence of a malfunction in the brain part that is accountable for the regulation of sleep, body temperature, and appetite.
16752	The cause of kleptomania is unknown, although it may have a genetic component and may be transmitted among first-degree relatives. There seems to be a strong propensity for kleptomania to coexist with obsessive-compulsive disorder, bulimia nervosa, and clinical depression.
16753	Klinefelter's Syndrome is caused by chromosome aneuploidy; described as the change in the number of chromosomes during cell division; resulting to an extra X chromosome.
16754	As of the moment, there is still no basis of what really causes Klippel Trenaunay-Weber Syndrome; ongoing test is being conducted to prove of its genetic origin.
16755	Klippel-Feil Syndrome is caused by a failure in the normal partition of the vertebrae in the neck during the early fetal development weeks.
16756	The most common cause of Klumpke paralysis is traumatic vaginal delivery; wherein shoulder front of the infant requires manipulation in order to pass below the pubic symphysis of the mother.
16758	Kluver-Bucy syndrome in its complete adaptation rarely occur in humans, however partial infliction or presentation of this syndrome is caused by massive bilateral temporal damage attributable to herpes, degenerative disorders of the brain like Pick's disease and Alzheimer's disease or cerebrovascular diseases.
16759	Kniest dysplasia is caused by new mutations in the COL2A1 gene.
16760	There is still no reliable proof as to what causes Kohler Disease, they simply rely to the idea that the disease may be a result of a strain to any tarsal bone in the foot (navicular bone).
16761	Korsakoff's syndrome is caused by insufficient amount of thiamine in the human brain, which is believed to have caused medial thalamus damage. This deficiency in thiamine may have been results of different causative factors including severe malnutrition and chronic alcoholism.
16762	Despite the fact that the causal genetic defect in myeloid precursor cells is still not yet established, evidences of mutations in the gene (ELA2) encoding neutrophil elastase surface to most of the patients with Kostmann syndrome.
16763	Krabbe disease is caused by mutations in the GALC gene, which results to a deficiency of an enzyme called galactosylceramidase. The buildup of unmetabolized lipids affects the growth of the nerve's protective myelin sheath (the covering that insulates many nerves) and leads to severe degeneration of mental and motor skills.
16764	The cause of Peters anomaly is not known; it may be the result of genetic factors, environmental factors, or both. The critical event must arise in the first trimester of pregnancy during the formation of the anterior chamber.
16765	The causes for the development of the Krukenberg tumor are either due to lymphatic abnormalities in the ovaries, or metastasis of the tumor cells found in the stomach.
16766	Kugelberg-Welander disease is an autosomal dominant disorder.
16767	This disease is subtype of prion diseases. During the endemic, the disease was transmitted by eating the flesh of a deceased family member, which was a funeral practice of the people in Papua New Guinea. The elimination of the practice caused the disease to disappear.
16768	The cause is not known, although several mechanisms have been suggested. This includes hyperthermia of the fetus, prenatal virus, fetal vascular compromise, decreased amniotic fluid, septum of the uterus, muscle and connective tissue developmental abnormalities.
16769	Protein deficiency is the very well-accepted cause of Kwashiorkor; however the deficiency in this nutrient may not be the fundamental causative factor enough to cause Kwashiorkor. Deficiency in other nutrients that are considered as anti-oxidant protection nutrients (for example: iodine and vitamin C) plus insufficient protein intake will likely result to development of Kwashiorkor. Another causative factor for Kwashiorkor is aflatoxin poisioning, which resulted from eating moldy foods.
16770	Kyasanur forest disease is caused by infection due to a tick-borne virus belonging to the flaviviridae family.
16771	Bad posture and abnormalities in the structure of the spine are causative factors for Kyphosis.
16772	Labrador lung is caused by breathing in dust mixed with silica and other compound in a non-organic form. Most sufferers of this illness are those who are working in coal mines. Generally, this disease is caused by work-related exposures to some of these harmful elements.
16773	There are many probable causes of Labyrinthitis: * Labyrinthitis may be due to a viral infection. * It may also be caused by a bacterial infection. * There is also a possibility of developing Labyrinthitis after a significant head injury. * Allergy may also be a causal factor for developing Labyrinthitis. * Additionally, a reaction on any specific medicine may also facilitate the occurrence of Labyrinthitis.
16774	Without lactase, the unprocessed lactose moves on to the colon, where the normal intestinal bacteria deal with it. This leads to the hallmarks of lactose intolerance - gas, bloating and diarrhea.
16775	Mastitis occurs when bacteria enter the breast through a break or crack in the skin of the nipple or through the opening to the milk ducts in your nipple. Bacteria from the skin's surface and baby's mouth enter the milk duct and can multiply - leading to pain, redness and swelling of the breast as infection progresses.
16777	The cells that line your small intestine produce an enzyme called lactase. Lactase falls down lactose into two simple sugars glucose and galactose which can be absorbed into your bloodstream.
16778	There is no confirmed basis for the real cause of Lafora Disease; however there is genetic analysis that reveals that a gene encoding the protein Laforin is greatly involved with the occurrence of the disease. The name of the gene encoding the protein Laforin is referred to as EPM2A.
16779	Lambert-Eaton Myasthenic Syndrome is caused by antibodies that are directed against the antigens of the junction between nerve and muscle.
16780	Lamellar Ichthyosis is an example of an autosomal recessive genetic disorder. This means that the malfunctioning gene is located on a non-sex hormone (autosome) and both parents must bear one copy of the malfunctioning gene in order to have a child born with this rare disorder. Furthermore, Lamellar Ichthyosis involves enzyme keratinocyte transglutaminase deficiency.
16781	Landau-Kleffner syndrome is caused by a malfunction or defect in the part of the brain that controls comprehension and speech.
16782	The real cause of Landouzy-Dejerine muscular dystrophy is still unknown; there are many undergoing studies but yet, no established fact are presented
16783	Langer-Giedion syndrome is caused by a missing chromosomal material; specifically a tiny piece of chromosome 8's long arm. This piece carries a number of genes. Losing these genes is the causative factor for all the symptoms of Langer-Giedion syndrome.
16784	Langerhans cell histiocytosis is caused by the proliferation of Langerhans cells.
16785	The occurrence of Laparoschisis can be caused by some of the following factors: * Complications due to infection during pregnancy * Maternal drug abuse * Young maternal age * Smoking during pregnancy * Child bearing with different fathers
16786	Laron-type dwarfism is caused by deficiency in the growth hormone receptors that is necessary to facilitate normal growth development.
16787	Larsen syndrome is a rare autosomal dominant genetic disease; the causal factor is somewhere in the genes but is not yet clearly established.
16788	Laryngeal cancer is caused by abuse of the larynx, primarily by cigarette smoking, and alcohol consumption.
16789	There are many contributing factors as to what causes Laryngeal Carcinoma. Usually, the occurrence of this cancer is due to a combination of causative factors. One of the most widespread belief and clinical findings has revealed that cigarette smoking and alcohol drinking have an enormous impact on developing Laryngeal Carcinoma; the reason why men are at the higher risk of developing this deadly disease.
16790	Laryngeal Papillomatosis is caused by the Human Papilloma Virus (HPV).
16791	Laryngitis is commonly caused by a virus or occurs in people who overuse their voice. Occasionally, you can develop laryngitis from bacterial infections and, rarely, from infections such as tuberculosis, syphilis, or a fungal infection.
16792	There are three factors that may serve as the causative factor of Laryngocele; although the main cause is the dilatation of laryngeal ventricles. 1. Laryngocele can be of congenital nature; present at birth. 2. Laryngocele can be acquired in certain occupations like the players of wind instruments. 3. Laryngocele can also be secondary to a chronic obstructive airway disease.
16793	Some cases of Laryngomalacia are inherited; however, this is not a gene-associated medical condition.
16794	Larynx cancer is caused by excessive cigarette smoking, alcohol abuse and consumption of harmful substances.
16795	The disease is caused by Lassa virus; which is an enveloped, single-stranded, bisegmented RNA virus.
16797	Tennis elbow is an overuse injury. It is caused by repeated contraction of the forearm muscles that you use to straighten and raise your hand and wrist. The repeated motions and stress to the tissue can result in inflammation or a series of tiny tears in the tendons that attach the forearm muscles to the bone at the outside of your elbow.
16798	In a latex allergy, immune system identifies latex as a harmful substance. The immune system triggers certain cells to produce immunoglobulin E (IgE) antibodies to fight the latex component (the allergen).
16799	Lattice dystrophy is caused by an enzymatic defect that produces abnormal protein fibers to form growths in the eye.
16800	The causes of Laurence-Moon-Bardet-Biedl syndrome can be found in mutated BBS genes located at the cell's cilia and basal body. The mutated gene products cause 'signal malfunctions' in the cilia, which in turn make wrong transport of proteins to the different organs of the body. The lack of the right proteins as well as the delivery of wrong proteins to the organs then cause defects in tissue production as well as detroy the function of the affected body organs.
16801	The most common culprit is strabismus - an imbalance in the muscles attributed with positioning of the eyes, which can cause the eyes to cross in or turn out. The muscle imbalance stops the eyes from tracking with each other.
16802	LCHAD deficiency is sometimes caused by fasting. But studies show that the disease is caused by a lack of an enzyme needed to metabolize fats and fatty acids. As a result, the fats thrive in tissues and clog their ability to function normally, not to mention deteriorate after some time.
16803	The cause of lead poisoning found in several locations in the environment such as soil, water, lead paint, household dust can contain lead from paint chips or soil brought in from outside. Some imported canned foods, and traditional remedies and cosmetics some cases of lead poisoning have been traced to the use of certain ayurvedic medications, traditional medicines from India and other South Asian countries that may contain lead.
16804	The disease is a caused by a genetic defect in the person's mitochondria.
16805	This disease is caused by a genetic mutation of the cells' mitochondria.
16806	Leber's Disease is caused by changes in the mitochondrial DNA. Mutations in the said DNA often causes disruptions in the cell's production of energy, and one of these syndromes lead to Leber's Disease.
16807	LHON is a mitochondrial defect caused by genetic mutations.
16808	The disease is a genetic disorder of the cells' mitochondria.
16808	The disease is a genetic disorder of the cells' mitochondria.
16809	The disease is caused by a deficiency in the formation of chromosome 16q22, which usually leads to negative effects in some body tissues.
16811	Left heart failure is caused by recent heart attacks, blockage of the arteries, hypertension, alcohol abuse and infections in the heart muscles.
16812	Common causes of night leg cramps include: Muscle overexertion, Prolonged sitting, Dehydration, Pregnancy, Diabetes, Decreased potassium levels, Neuromuscular disorders, such as Parkinson's disease, Certain medications, such as albuterol, niacin, diuretics, and some calcium channel blockers and antipsychotic medications, Alcohol use.
16813	Legionellosis is caused by a strain of bacteria known as Legionella pneumophilia. This bacteria lives in warm environments with temperatures ranging from 25 to 45 C.
16814	Leigh disease is an inherited illness that affects babies between three months and two years of age. It is caused by a mutation in the mitochondrial DNA that degrades motor skills and may cause eventual death.
16817	The disease is caused by Leishmanian protozoans, which are carried by sand flies. Leishmaniasis is commonly spread through animals bitten by the fly, but human infection also occurs.
16818	The disease is caused by a the bacterial strain known as Fusobacterium necrophorum, which can be found in oropharyngeal flora.
16819	There is no specific cause for the Lennox-Gastaut syndrome, but the disease is a common effect of previous infantile illnesses such as tuberous sclerosis, menengitis, encephalitis and other birth injuries.
16820	Lentigo simplex has an unknown cause. Without associated conditions, multiple lentigines can occur in which case the condition is referred to as generalised lentigines or lentigines profusa and when multiple lentigines occur with associated abnormalities, the condition forms its own disease entity.
16821	Due to localized proliferation of melanocytes, lentigines are common in those with fair skin but are also frequently seen in those who tan easily or have naturally dark skin. This is because the melanin-producing cell, or melanocyte is damaged by UV radiation causing it to get bigger.
16822	Leprechaunism is caused by an autosomal recessive genetic defect in the short arm chromosome 19 (19p13.2).
16823	Leprosy is caused by the bacterium Mycobacterium leprae. It is an acid-fast, gram-positive strain, surrounded by a waxy cell membrane coating.
16824	Leptospirosis is caused by the bacterium named Leptospira spp. This bacterial strain is transmitted by the urine of an animal carrier, the most common of which are rats. This is usually one of the diseases rampant during floods, as rat urine may run with the flood. The bacteria may then infect open wounds or breaks of human skin which eventually starts the onset of the disease.
16825	The disease is causeds by a lack of the enzyme hypoxanthine-guanine phosphoribosyltransferase (HGPRT). The Lesch-Nyhan syndrome generates an overproduction of uric acid, which spreads to different organs causing problems such as gout, and develops sodium urate crystals the hinder the proper functioning of the kidneys, central nervous system and various joints. The disease also leads to megaloblastic anemia, due to the inability of the body to utilize vitamin B12.
16828	There is no specific cause of leukemia, but studies show that leukemia can be a result of ionizing radiation, exposure to some harmful chemicals, genetic predespositions and certain viruses.
16830	Chronic myeloid leukemia originates from a chromosomal defect, while the exact causes of acute myeloid leukemia remain unclear.
16831	The origins of Chronic T-Cell Leukemia is believed to be a mature (i.e. post-thymic) T-cell. It is an aggressive, rapidly progressing disease that evolves from leukemia. Because of the disease's systemic nature, leukemic cells may be found in peripheral lymph nodes, spleen, blood, liver, bone marrow, and skin.
16832	Leukocyte adhesion deficiency syndrome is an inherited molecular dysfunction in the chromosome 21. This defect generates a non-functioning protein that in turn hinders the flow of other nutrients in the blood stream which are supposed to fight infections.
16833	Leukodystrophy is an inherited genetic defect. It can be a dominant, recessive, or X-type disorder, depending on the kind of leukodystrophy.
16834	Globoid cell leukodystrophy is an autosomal recessive genetic disorder.
16835	metachromatic leukodystrophy is caused by a lack of the arylsulfatase A enzyme. This enzyme is needed to keep sulfatides from building up and destroying the myelin.
16836	Leukomalacia is caused by oxygen deficiency in the brain, resulting to loss and eventual death of the brain tissue. The periventricular area, where the white matter is mostly found, contain the brain's nerve fibers that send stimuli within the nervous system.
16837	Leukoplakia may be an end result of tobacco consumption, as well as irritation in the mouth.
16838	The actual cause of the discomfort is unknown.
16839	The main cause of Lewy body dementia is still largely unknown. However, Lewy bodies have been known to contain a certain protein that is associated with Parkinson's. ==========
16840	The cause of Lewy body dementia isn't known. Moreover, Lewy bodies contain a protein associated with Parkinson's. Furthermore, Lewy bodies often are found in the brains of people who have Parkinson's or Alzheimer's.
16842	The disease is a result of a mutation in p53, a kind of gene that supresses tumors. Persons with the disease possess a defective p53 gene paired with a healthy p53 gene. But because of its destructive mutation, the defective gene knocks out the healthy copy and leads to cancer.
16843	One can get lice by coming into contact with either lice or their eggs. Eggs hatch in about a week. Lice can't fly or walk on the ground and they spread by: head-to-head or body-to-body contact; close proximity of stored belongings; sharing items; contact with contaminated furniture; and sexual contact.
16844	The cause of lichen nitidus is not known, however, it may be occasionally seen with the following conditions: lichen planus, amenorrhea, Crohn's disease, and juvenile rheumatoid arthritis.
16845	The exact cause of Lichen planus remains unknown, but there are cases involving allergic reactions to drugs for hypertension, arthritis and heart disease. It has also been reported to be a complication of hepatitis C infection.
16846	The exact cause of oral lichen planus is not known. In certain cases, the condition appears to be triggered by an allergic or immune reaction to one or more substances. Certain medical conditions are sometimes linked with oral lichen planus, but often the source can't be determined.
16847	The cause is not known, although an overactive immune system may play a role. Some people may have a genetic tendency toward the disease, and studies have suggested that abnormal hormone levels may also play a role. Some scientists believe that an infectious bacterium, called a spirochete, may trigger the changes in the immune system that lead to lichen sclerosus.
16848	The exact cause of neurodermatitis is not known. Occasionally, neurodermatitis begins with something that simply rubs or irritates the skin, such as tight clothing or a bug bite. As one rubs or scratches the area, it gets itchier. The more the person scratches, the more it itches.
16850	Liddle syndrome is caused by a disregulated mutation of Na+ channel in the 16p12-p13 gene.
16851	Sprained ligaments often result from falling or twisting the joint. One may also get a sprain if he is in a car accident. The ankle is the most frequent site of this kind of injury.
16852	Limb-girdle muscular dystrophy is hereditary disease, and the result of this defect is that the muscles are unable to process proteins for proper muscle function.
16853	Lip cancer, or oral cancer in general, is often caused by frequent tobacco use and excessive alcohol consumption, as well as certain medical conditions such as leukoplakia and erythroplakia. In addition, too much exposure to sunlight is also believed to play a role.
16854	Lipodystrophy is caused by continous injections, antiretroviral durgs due to lipid redistribution, or can also be inherited.
16855	Lipoid congenital adrenal hyperplasia is caused by a defect in the gene that transports cholesterol to the mitochondria. Because of this, the cell creates damages in the formation of sex characteristics and bring about certain defects in the reproductive system.
16856	The exact cause of lipomas isn't known, though sometimes lipomas are detected after an injury. But it's not known whether they're caused by the trauma or whether their detection was just incidental. Lipomas also tend to run in families, so genetic factors are likely play a role in their development.
16858	Lissencephaly may be a result of viral infections in the fetus during its first three months of development. It can also be because of insufficient supply of blood in the fetal brain during pregnancy. The disease may also be because of genetic mutations.
16859	Lissencephaly syndrome type 1 may stem from a number of causes. One such cause is a viral infection of the uterus during the first trimester of pregnancy. Another identified cause is insufficient blood supply to the fetal brain. A range of genetic factors have also been associated with lissencephaly, such as mutation of the reelin gene in chromosome 7, plus other genes on the chromosome 17 and the X chromosome.
16860	Listeria infection is caused by acquiring listeria monocytogenes, which are abundant in the environment. Listeria monocytogenes are often ingested through food products that are contaminated. Main sources of this bacterium are dairy products, raw meat, seafood, and vegetables.
16862	Kidney stones take place when the components of urine - fluid and various minerals and acids - are out of balance. When this happens, urine contains more crystal-forming substances, such as calcium and uric acid, than the available fluid can dilute.
16863	Patients may have a traumatic experience with lawsuits or those resembling it on television. They may also have seen or personally known people who underwent a traumatic experience related to lawsuits.
16864	Abscess may accumulate in the liver as a result of amebic dysentery or blood poisoning. Amebic liver abscess usually arises as a consequence of an intestinal infection cause by an organism called Entamoeba histolytica. In addition, the following risk factors may play a role: malnutrition, aging, pregnancy, cancer, steroid use, immunosuppression, excessive alcohol use, as well as recent travel to a tropical region known for Entamoeba histolytica infections.
16865	Liver cancer occurs when liver cells begin to grow abnormally. It is not completely understood why this happens, but researchers believe that cancer starts with damage to DNA the material that contains the instructions for every chemical process in your body, including the rate of cellular growth.
16866	Liver cirrhosis is often a result of excessive alcoholism, and other diseases such as hepatitis C.
16867	Liver neoplasms are either a result of chronic infections such as Hepatitis B and/or C. Consuming large amounts of ethanol can also lead to the disease, as well as certain species of the Aspergillus fungus which contain aflatoxin.
16868	Ultraviolet (UV) light speeds up the production of melanin. Melanin is the dark pigment in the epidermis that gives the skin its normal color. The extra melanin - produced to protect the deeper layers of the skin - creates the darker color of a tan. Age spots appear when the extra melanin becomes "clumped" or is produced in higher concentrations than normal.
16870	Some of the causes of the Locked-In syndrome are traumatic brain injury, cardiovascular diseases, overdose to medication, damage to nerve cells and brain hemorrhage.
16871	The bacteria that cause tetanus, Clostridium tetani, can be found in soil, dust and animal feces. When they enter a deep flesh wound, spores of the bacteria may give out a powerful toxin, tetanospasmin, which acts on various areas of the nervous system. The effect of the toxin on the nerves can cause muscle stiffness and spasms - the major signs of tetanus.
16873	The illness is caused by a genetic mutations that encode the transforming growth factor beta receptor 1 (TGFBR1) or 2 (TGFBR2).
16874	The disease is brought about by Chrysops silacea and Chrysops dimidiata. These flies transmit the disease through bites on the skin.
16875	The exact cause of Loin pain hematuria syndrome is still unknown. Theories indicate congestion of the red blood cell renal tubular and glomerular basement membrane that make the kidneys swell.
16876	The Long QT syndrome is either genetic or drug-induced.
16880	Lordosis may occur as a consequence of certain factors and some underlying conditions, such as: obesity, pregnancy, prolapsed disk, spinal arthritis, osteoarthritis, achondroplasia, or spondylolisthesis.
16881	Familial ALS results from a number of genetic factors. This disease has been associated with a mutation of the copper/zincSuperoxide dismutase (SOD1), a type of enzyme responsible for hunting free radicals. Many believe that the mutation is inherited via autosomal dominancy. To date, no definitive cause for Lou Gehrig's disease has been identified. However, it has been linked to such factors as viral infections, neurotoxin exposure, DNA defects, abnormalities in the immune system, and enzyme defects.
16882	Louis-Bar syndrome is a genetic condition commonly associated with an abnormality in T-cells.
16883	The cause of the disease is a tick-borne Arbovirus that belongs to the tick-borne encephalitis (TBE) compound.
16884	Hypoglycemia is caused by hyperinsulinism, it is the excessive production of insulin that was not able to be processed properly into the blood. It can be due to insulin overdose, or an enzymatic defect.
16885	A woman's desire for sex is dependent on a complex interaction of many components affecting intimacy, including physical well-being, emotional well-being, experiences, beliefs, lifestyle and current relationship. If one is experiencing problems in any of these areas, it can affect her sexual desire. In other words, there are dozens of reasons the patient may not be interested in sex, such as: sexual problems, medical diseases, medications, alcohol, and drugs.
16887	There are many causes for lower back pain. It can be a result of trauma or injury, growing tumors in the lower back area, degenerative discs, depression, and inflammation of the back joints due to arthritis.
16888	Although no specific cause has been identified to date, LSA is often associated with alopecia areata, vitiligo, as well as clinical and serologic disorders of the thyroid. In experimental research, it has been revealed that antibodies are present in the extra-cellular matrix (ECM) protein of afflicted patients. This finding seems to indicate an autoimmune origin for the disease.
16891	Lumbago may be caused by a variety of conditions, including: scoliosis; slipped disk; osteoporosis; and in rare cases, malignant tumors or infections in the spinal area. In majority of lumbago cases, the exact cause cannot be pinpointed.
16892	A majority of lung abscesses are caused by infections of certain bacteria. Anaerobes that do not need oxygen or air to thrive are the leading cause of such infections, although some cases are also linked to anaerobic and aerobic (air breathing) organisms. When these bacteria invade the lungs, they are engorged by phagocytes, which in turn release chemicals that can cause inflammation, necrosis, and damage to lung tissues. In addition, lung abscess may also be caused by accidental inhalation of infectious material from the mouth into the airway and lungs. Obstruction of the bronchi due to tumors, swollen tissue, or foreign objects, may also lead to lung abscess.
16893	The primary factors that contribute to lung cancer (or cancer in general) are carcinogens (such as in cigarettes or tobaccos), ionizing radiation, and viral infection. Exposure to such agents leads to cumulative changes in the DNA, affecting the tissue lining and bronchi of the lungs. If more tissues are damaged, a cancer may eventually develop. Smoking cigarettes is definitely one of the major causes of lung cancer. Approximately 87% of documented cases in the United States were caused by smoking. There are over 60 identified carcinogens in cigarette smoke. In addition, nicotine, the addictive component of cigarettes, hinders the immune response to malignant formations in the exposed tissue. Individuals who quit smoking significantly decrease their risk of developing lung cancer. Over time, lung damage is repaired, and contaminants are removed from the affected areas.
16894	Primary spontaneous pneumothorax is thought to occur when a small air blister (bleb) on the lung ruptures. Blebs are caused by a weakness in the lung tissue and can rupture from changes in air pressure when one goes scuba diving, flying, mountain climbing or, according to some reports, listening to extremely loud music.
16896	Lupus is an autoimmune disease, which means that instead of just attacking foreign substances, such as bacteria and viruses, your immune system also turns against healthy tissue. This leads to inflammation and damage to different parts of the body, including the joints, skin, kidneys, heart, lungs, blood vessels and brain.
16897	LA is caused by a metabolic disorder in which the antibodyphospholipids prolong the time before the blood clots.
16899	Lupus nephritis is an inflammation of the kidneys caused by a disease of the immune system known as systemic lupus erythematosus. Lupus nephritis is also linked to a number of heredity and genetic factors as well as certain environmental triggers.
16900	The human papilloma virus is considered as the cause of epidermodysplasia verruciformis. Strains 5 and 8 of the said virus are believed to be the main contributing factors. There is also evidence of genetic disposition to this skin disease, a factor that may explain why this condition is extremely rare. Papilloma viruses are found in only 15-20% of normal skin with no heightened incidence of cancer.
16901	Lyell's syndrome is commonly caused by an adverse reaction to certain drugs, such as antibiotics, nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, allopurinol, antiretroviral drugs, corticosteroids, and a variety of anticonvulsants. In addition, Lyell's syndrome may also develop as a result of immunizations, infections of certain viral (such as herpes) or bacterial agents, and the body's rejection of organ transplants.
16903	The gram-negative spirochetal bacteria from the genus Borrelia is the culprit of Lyme disease. Of the 37 Borrelia species known to date, at least 12 may cause Lyme. This group of the Borrelia genus is known collectively as burgdorferi sensu lato.
16904	Streptococcal and staphylococcal bacteria are the most common causes of lymphadenitis, although viruses, protozoa, rickettsiae, fungi, and the tuberculosis bacillus can also affect the lymph nodes. Diseases or disorders that involve lymph nodes in certain areas of the body include rabbit fever (tularemia), cat-scratch disease, lymphogranuloma venereum, chancroid, genital herpes, infected acne, dental abscesses, and bubonic plague.
16905	The most common cause of swollen lymph nodes is an infection, particularly viral infections such as the common cold.
16906	Considered a chronic form of protein-losing enteropathy, lymphangiectasia is caused by a congenital malformation of the lymphatic nodes. Ruptured lymphatics may lead to protein loss in the intestines. Secondary causes for lymphangiectasia include cancer-causing lymphatic obstructions (ie. granulomas), or increased central venous pressure (CVP) that cause abnormal lymph drainage.
16907	The direct cause of LMA is not exactly known. It is however believed that the smooth muscle that occurs in patients with tuberous sclerosis, which are similar to those in renal angiomyolipomas, represents metastases of a benign tumor. It is said that there is a female preponderance to TSC-LAM (Henske EP. Metastasis of benign tumor cells in tuberous sclerosis complex. Genes, Chromosomes and Cancer. December 2003. 38 (4): 376-81).
16908	Lymphangiomas are caused by an accumulation of enlarged lymph vessels that fail to communicate normally with the lymphatic system. These lymph nodes may have been enlarged by infections, malignancy, inflammatory problems, or other disorders. In addition, lymphangiomas are usually a symptom of more serious underlying causes, such as: Bannayan-Zonana syndrome, Macrodactyly - Hemihypertrophy - Connective tissue nevi syndrome, or lymphadenopathy.
16909	The disease is caused by the thread-like parasitic filarial worms called nematode woms, Wuchereria bancrofti, Brugia malayi and Brugia timori which are all carried and transmitted by mosquitoes.
16910	Lymphedema may be inherited or caused by injury to the lymphatic vessels. In some cases, it is seen after a lymph node dissection or surgery and radiation therapy which causes damage to the lymphatic system.
16911	Lymphocytic choriomeningitis is caused by an infectious virus known as the lymphocytic choriomeningitis virus (LCMV) of the family Arenaviridae. House mice, rats and other rodents are natural reservoirs of the virus. Human transmission is usually through exposure to contaminated droppings, urine, or saliva.
16912	The condition is genetically inherited.
16913	It is caused by the immature lymphocytes before they becomes T and B-cells in the circulation of the blood which is called lymphoblasts.
16914	Long term use and medications of NSAIDs, antidepressant and other drugs including overactive immune responses are the common factors considered in tracing the cause of lymphocytic colitis.
16915	The disease is caused by the persistent serovars L1, L2, or L3 of Chlamydia trachomatis.
16915	Lymphogranuloma venereum is an infection caused by three aggressive serovars or subtypes of Chlamydia trachomatis, a bacterium that is transmitted to humans through sexual contact.
16916	Three different sub-types of the bacteria Chlamydia trachomatis cause lymphogranuloma venereum (LGV), which is spread through sexual contact.
16917	Old age, infections Infection with human T-lymphocytic virus type 1 (HTLV-1), Epstein-Barr virus (EBV), Helicobacter pylori, having medical conditions that compromise the immune system, exposure to toxic chemicals and family history of lymphoma are the common cause of the disease.
16923	The cause of Lymphomatoid granulomatosis is unknown however there are some theories that points to viral sources.
16924	It is not exactly known the direct cause of lymphosarcoma but those with weak immune system such as those affected with HIV, have higher incidence of lymphosarcoma.
16925	People who inherit one of the abnormal genes associated with Lynch syndrome lack the ability to repair these minor mistakes. A collection of these mistakes leads to increasing genetic damage within cells and eventually can lead to the cells becoming cancerous.
16926	The cause of the disease is often linked to the increased excretion of the cationic amino acids. Deficiency of lysine also plays a vital role in causing the disease.
16927	It is commonly caused by the deficiency of an enzyme called alpha-D-mannosidase, which is important to the process of breaking down the complex molecule.
16928	One of the known causes of Lysosomal disorder is the defect on the lysosomal metabolism of a person.
16929	Lyssavirus is an organism that shares similarities with the rabies virus. Bats are the most common carriers of this virus. Infections are usually spread to humans through bites and scratches from infected bats, or through contact with contaminated blood or urine. The most widespread and aggressive form of lyssavirus to date is the Australian Bat Lyssavirus.
16930	Mac Ardle Disease is a diseased caused by a deficiency of myophosphorylase. The deficiency results to the failure of the enzyme to ultimately impairs the operation of ATPasas.
16931	Machado-Joseph disease is a genetic disorder caused by a mutation in the ATXN3 gene located in chromosome 14. It is inherited via the autosomal dominant pattern. According to DNA studies, Machado-Joseph disease is the most common and the most widespread hereditary form of ataxia in the world.
16932	It occurs when blood platelets begin producing abnormal amounts of IgM, an antibody which causes the blood to thicken and to be more viscous.
16933	Macroglossia is caused by idiopathic muscle hypertrophy, gland hyperplasia and hemangioma. It may also be caused by hypothyroidism, cretinism and diabetes
16934	Age factor, polymorphing or deposits in the macula, and too much exposure to sun are common causes of macular degeneration in general.
16935	Family History, macular degeneration gene, result of hypertension, high fat intake and excessive exposure to sun causes Macular degeneration juvenile.
16936	Age-related Macular Degeneration is usually due to old age.
16937	Polymorphism Macular Degeneration is often linked to polymorphic or building of deposits in the macula.
16938	Holes in the macula may be caused by a number of factors, such as certain diseases, inflammation inside the eye, or certain other diseases. However, macular holes are more commonly associated with the normal wear and tear of the aging process.
16939	It is said to be caused by a specific type of misfolded protein called prion. BSE or mad cow disease is a type of transmissible spongiform encephalopathy which causes previously normal protein to contort from an alpa helical arrangement to a disease-causing shape called beta-pleasted sheet. Inquiry on the disease shows that its may be caused by cattle being fed with the remains of other cattle with mad cow disease (BSE: Disease control & eradication - Causes of BSE", Department for Environment, Food, and Rural Affairs, March 2007).
16940	Direct cause is not specifically known but familial pattern and gene inheritance are considered as the cause of present manifestation of the syndrome.
16941	Magnesium deficiency may result from reduced magnesium intake or absorption, as in the case of malabsorption syndrome, chronic alcoholism, diarrhea, prolonged diuretic therapy, postoperative complications after bowel resection, nasogastric suctioning, or starvation and malnutrition. Another possible cause of the deficiency is excessive loss of magnesium through severe dehydration, diabetic acidosis, and other related conditions. In addition, the following factors may also play a role: laxative use, chronic renal insufficiency, overuse of magnesium-containing antacids, overcorrection of hypomagnesemia, and severe dehydration.
16942	It is a motion sickness associated with postural instability after sailing (Nachum, Z., et al., Mal de debarquement and posture: reduced reliance on vestibular and visual cues. Laryngoscope, 2004. 114(3): p. 581-6). Other theories states that it is also caused by a variant of migraine and by the high weighting of somatosensory input for balance.
16943	A number of factors may impact the ability of the small intestine to absorb nutrients, including: errors in the digestive process; failure to produce certain digestive enzymes; structural defects or tumors growing in the intestine; intestinal infections; inflammatory processes; congenital defects; and a wide range of other diseases. In addition, recent injury or surgical removal of portions of the small intestine may also cause malabsorption.
16944	It results from the insufficient killing of bacteria by macrophages that leads to deposition of iron and calcium. It is most common in patients that have history of immunosuppression due to lymphoma, diabetes mellitus and renal transplantation. It may also be caused by long-term therapy with systemic corticosteroids.
16945	Malaria is caused by parasites originating from the Plasmodium genus. Most malaria human infections are caused by P. falciparum, P. malariae, P. ovale, and P. vivax.
16946	Cancer is a group of abnormal cells that grow more rapidly than do normal cells. Cancer cells also has the ability to invade and destroy normal tissues, either by growing directly into surrounding structures or after traveling to another part of your body through your bloodstream or lymphatic system.
16947	Some common causes of hypogonadism include Klinefeiter's syndrome, undescended testicles, mumps orchitis, hemochromatosis, injury to the testicles, and cancer treatment.
16948	Male menopause is a normal process men go through due to aging.
16949	Male pseudohermaphroditism due to 17-beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase deficiency-3 is caused by gene mutations originating in the 17Beta Hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase.
16950	The cause of malignant fibrous histiocytoma is still uncertain up to now.
16951	Malignant hyperthermia is caused by exposure to drugs used for general anesthesia. This includes volatile anesthetics and suxamethonium chloride, a well-known depolarizing muscle relaxant.
16952	Mallory-Weiss syndrome is usually linked to alcoholism and eating disorders. There are also claims that the condition relates to hiatal hernia as a predisposing requirement for Mallory-Weiss syndrome.
16953	Malonic Aciduria is an inherited autosomal recessive disorder caused by mutations in the MLYCD (malonyl-CoA decarboxylase) gene. These mutations cause reduction or elimination of the function of malonyl-CoA decarboxylase enzyme. As a result, fatty acids are not converted into energy and tend to accumulate in bodily tissues producing the symptoms of Malonic Aciduria.
16954	The deficiency is inherited from both parents carrying defective genes but do not usually have the condition.
16955	The cause of Malouf syndrome is unknown; however the main characteristic of the disease is cardiomyopathy.
16956	Malta fever is caused by bacterial strains under the genus Brucella. It can be contracted from infected cattle through consumption of milk.
16958	Mammary duct ectasia happens when a milk duct beneath the nipple becomes dilated and inflamed. Other causes include hormonal changes, smoking, inverted nipple, and lack of vitamin A.
16959	There is no single cause for the disorder; however there are many factors that lead to the development of this disorder. The cause is not either environmental or physiological factors alone; it involves multi-factors to produce the illness. There are also studies that show that manic depression tend to run in families; it can be inherited and individuals with family history of bipolar spectrum diseases are at a greater risk of developing this mood disorder.
16960	Mannosidosis is caused by deficiency of the enzyme alpha mannosidosase resulting to accumulation of chemicals in the body leading to physical and mental weakening.
16961	Mansonelliasis is a filarial disease caused by the genus Mansonella.
16962	The real cause of mantle cell lymphoma is still unknown; it is not an infectious disease and cannot be passed on to other people.
16963	Map-Dot-Fingerprint Dystrophy is caused by an abnormal development of the epithelium's basement membrane, which primarily functions as a foundation for epithelial cells. When the basement membrane develops abnormally, epithelial cells may not be able to properly adhere themselves to it, thus leading to recurrent epithelial erosions that may create a small gap between the outermost layer and the rest of the cornea. These resulting gaps appear as odd grayish patches that resemble continents on a map.
16964	Maple syrup urine disease is caused by a deficiency of the metabolic enzyme branched-chain a-keto acid dehydrogenase (BCKDH), leading to a buildup of the branched-chain amino acids (leucine, isoleucine, and valine) and their toxic by-products in the blood and urine.
16965	The causative agent of Marburg hemorrhagic fever is the marburg virus.
16966	Marchiafava-Bignami disease is traditionally associated with chronic alcohol abusers who are habitual and prolonged drinkers of cheap Italian red wine. Though there are also occurrences in non-alcoholics. Marchiafava-Bignami disease is due to demyelination of the corpus callosum and laminar necrosis in the frontal and temporal lobes of the brain.
16967	Almost 50% of the Marcus Gunn phenomenon cases are congenital in nature due to damage in the cranial nerve nuclei caused by an injury to the peripheral nerve.
16968	Marek's disease is caused by the herpes virus.
16969	This medical condition is caused by mutations in the FBN1 gene on chromosome 15.
16970	Marinesco-Sjogren syndrome is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern. The causative factor in the genetic defect is not yet known.
16971	Maroteaux-Lamy syndrome is caused by a deficiency of the enzyme aryl sulphatase B.
16972	Marshall syndrome is caused by an abnormality in the collage, a fundamental part of the connective tissue.
16973	No specific gene has been linked to Marshall-Smith syndrome and other genetic background is still not yet known.
16974	The Martin-Bell syndrome is a caused by a faulty gene in the X chromosome. Boys are more prone to the disorder.
16975	Masculinisation may be due to normal genetic variations. For instance, some females have more hair than others. In some cases, masculinisation may be caused by hirsutism itself (rather than the latter causing the former). Hormonal changes during menopause and perimenopause are also believed to produce symptoms of masculinisation. Certain ovarian conditions such as carcinomas or polycystic ovary syndromes may also play a role. Other possible causes include: hypothyroidism; Cushing's syndrome; pituitary tumor; as well as certain drugs that may or may not be intentionally taken to trigger masculinisation (as in transgender cases).
16976	The cause of mast cell disease is still unknown.
16977	One study has suggests that some women with cyclical mastalgia have a decreased ratio of progesterone to estrogen in the second half of the menstrual cycle. Other studies have discovered that an abnormality in the hormone prolactin may affect breast pain. Hormones can also affect cyclical breast pain because of stress - breast pain can increase or change its pattern with the hormone changes that occur during times of stress.
16978	It is caused by bacteria that enters through the opening of the breast especially of the nipple, usually a break or crack, or through the opening of its milk ducts.
16979	Mastocytosis results when too many mastocytes and CD34+ mast cell precursors exists, which the body cannot handle.
16979	Causes of underlying conditions the possible cause mastocytosis includes: Cancer and Blood disorder.
16980	The cause of mastoiditis is usually a bacterial infection in the middle ear that has been left untreated. The infection attacks the mastoid are cells, which damages the bony structures. The types of bacteria responsible for this range from generic Streptococcus to Staphylococcus aureus. Another cause is an untreated cholesteatoma which can also erode into the mastoid process.
16981	Beta-ketothiolase deficiency is due to unprocessed amino acid isoleucine in the body that has developed to toxic levels in the blood. Hypermethioninemia occurs when methionine did not properly break down in the body. It may also be due to liver disease or excessive methionine due to large consumption of protein or infant formula enriched in methionine.
16982	The most common factors that contribute to maternal death are: variants of gestational hypertension (such as HELLP syndrome and pre-eclampsia); bacterial infections; ectopic pregnancy; obstetrical hemorrhage; amniotic fluid embolism; puerperal sepsis; and complications from abortions. Risk factors that can lead to maternal death are poor nutrition and medical care. In some cases, maternal death occurs when a mother tries to terminate the pregnancy herself.
16983	The condition is genetically inherited.
16984	Myophosphorylase is the muscle isoform of the glycogen enzyme called phosphorylase and what happens with victims of this disease is that a metabolic disorder prevents the sufficient production of this muscle isoform.
16985	The individual with the syndrome usually has a mutated gene in which he or she has more than one cell populations that have dissimilar genetic makeup.
16986	Measles is caused by a virus, specifically the paramyxovirus of the genus Morbillivirus and is spread through respiration- it is highly contagious.
16987	The syndrome is classified as an autosomal recessive lethal malformation; studies of the genes involved MKS1 and MKS3 have mapped out their cellular, sub-cellular and functional characteristics which could lead significant inroads towards understanding them why they malfunction which causes the disorder.
16988	It is usually cause by the stress or the overload on the tibial and the connective tissues that usually linked the muscle to the bone. It is usually caused by running and training too hard and long.
16989	Mediastinal fibrosis is caused by infection from bacterial pathogens or some other atypical organisms, causing the patient's physiological compromise by bleeding, compression and systemic sepsis or any combination of these.
16990	Mediterranean anemia is primarily caused by some defects in the genes that produces the hemoglobin an d is passed on from parent to child.
16991	The main cause of FMF is basically a mutation in the MEFV gene, which codes for a protein called pyrin or marenostenin.
16992	The main cause of MCAD is genetic; mutations in the gene can cause insufficient levels of the medium-chain acyl-coenzyme. Being inherited, the condition follows an autosomal recessive pattern in which two copies of the defective gene in each cell are required for MCAD to be inherited; one inherited copy of the faulty gene means an individual becoming a carrier.
16993	The disorder is rare, but inherited in an autosomal recessive fashion which means that double replication can cause the disease while one copy can make the individual a carrier Most common genetic causes of kidney failure among children is caused by this disease.
16994	Current medical research has proposed that medulloblastoma may come from cerebellar "stem cells" which have been somehow prevented from proper division and differentiation into into their normal cell types. This is confirmed from observations made from different histologic variants taken from biopsies. A typical Rosette formation as observed from s high as half of all cases is indicative of medulloblastoma. Current advances on Molecular genetics has also revealed loss of genetic information on chromosome 17 and the p53 gene, which could account for the defect.
16995	Because the disease is extremely rare, frequency studies have been unable to pinpoint the exact cause. But one thing is clear about the disorder; that mutations in the COL11A2 gene cause the disorder. The mutations prevent the formation of collagen that is crucial to the normal development of the bones and connective tissues. Being an inherited autosomal recessive pattern disease, genetics either create carriers or those who develop the full blown disorder.
16996	The unusual and seemingly short length of the ganglia cause is still unknown. However, the condition is usually associated with the mutation of the genes and with the multiple endocrine neoplasia type IIB which causes tumors, though not cancerous in the mucous membranes and the adrenal glands.
16997	Megalencephaly is usually caused by a range of underlying conditions, including: Toriello-Carey syndrome; Neurofibromatosis type 1; Riley-Smith syndrome; Tay-Sachs disease; Sotos syndrome; Waisman-Laxova syndrome; Alpha-L-iduronidase deficiency; Proteus syndrome; Epidermal naevus syndrome; Dysosteosclerosis; Robinow-Silverman-Smith syndrome; Alexander disease; Acrocephalopolysyndactyly type 2; Alpha-mannosidase deficiency; I-cell disease; van der Knaap disease; Multiple hamartoma syndrome; Wiedemann-Rautenstrauch syndrome; and a number of other diseases.
16998	For one, this form of anemia has been to be more common in persons who come from northern Europe. What happens is that the disease results from the inability of the gastrointestinal tract to absorb Vitamin B12 which then results to a deficiency of this important vitamin. The root cause can be chronic gastritis, or probably gastrectomy which is the removal of all or some part of the stomach. It can also happen from type 1 diabetes and thyroid disease.
16999	The cause of the disease is unknown although it tends to affect more women than men.
17000	One of the main cause of Melanoma is too much exposure to ultraviolet radiation.
17001	The causes of melanoma depend on two factors; one is intrinsic factors which could point to a family history of cancers and two is excessive sun exposure. The latter has been found to be the most contributory causes to melanomas as UV radiation damages the cells DNA.
17003	For the majority of cases, signs and symptoms appear in childhood after what appears to be normal development. Symptoms include a weakening and pain in the muscles, recurring headaches, vomiting, loss of appetite and seizures. The stroke-like events begin to appear right before the age of 40 and often involve hemiparesis (muscle weakness only on one side of the body), seizures, migraine-like headaches, vision defects. The "strokes" can eventually damage the brain leading to movement problems and even dementia.
17004	Melasma has an unknown cause. A family history of melasma are more likely to develop melasma among people themselves and a change in hormonal status may also trigger this condition. Those using birth control pills may also cause melasma, however, hormone replacement therapy used after menopause has not been shown to cause the condition.
17005	The cause for this disease is genetics; classified as being autosomal recessive inheritance, offspring can be carriers or who later develop the disease. Studies have shown that the mutation may occur on the SLURP gene.
17006	The main cause of course is the organism, Burkholderia pseudomallei, which is phylogenetically related to Burkholderia mallei which is the infectious organism that is the cause of glanders.
17007	The cause of this disease is unknown but there is evidence to suggest that it may be genetically determined as it has been found to share similarities with of Crohn's disease or sarcoidosis.
17008	Memory loss is caused by different reasons. Senile dementia is brought about by the degeneration of the memory glands as one grows older. Amnesia meanwhile is a result of a traumatic experience; while aphasia can be due to a stroke.
17009	Menarche is considered as the peak of a series of anatomic and physiological process related to female puberty. Menarche is achieved when the female's reproductive system reaches maturity. The timing of a female's first menstrual bleeding varies according to certain genetic and environmental factors, such as nutrition.
17010	The disease take two forms- one for children and one for adults with the childhood form offering better prognosis. Chiildren typically get the disease after getting a viral infection by a cytomegalovirus or bacterial infection caused by Helicobacter pylori. The disease is not inherited. The adult form afflicts more men between the ages of 30 and 60 years old.
17011	The specific cause of meninges cancer is not known; however, it has been associated with factors that affect some cells in the meninges membranes, making them multiply in uncontrollable amounts. This uncontrollable growth leads to a meningioma tumor and potentially cancer. Whether this process is caused by genetics, the environment, or a combination of both factors, remains unknown.
17012	The cause of meningiomas are thought to be genetic mutations. Females are more predisposed to them than men and often reach their peak of incidence at 60 years. There has also been evidence that confirms the possibility that scalp radiation increases one's chances of developing meningiomas.
17013	The main causes can range from bacteria, viruses and other infecting agents, but can also be attributed to drug reactions, cancer and even traumatic head injuries. Because its proximity to the brain is very close, the possibility of neurological damage is great; once identified, immediate medical attention is necessary.
17014	Meningitis is caused by the meningococci bacteria. The bacteria can penetrate into the brain and spinal cord through the ears, throat or nose. They can also be contracted during a head injury.
17015	Infection from Neisseria meningitidis (also known as meningococcus) is the main cause, the transmission of which is extremely contagious.
17016	The causes of meningocele include teratoma as well as other tumors of the sacrococcyx and of the presacral space, and even Currarino syndrome.
17017	The infection is caused by the Neisseria meningitides bacteria, which resides in the upper respiratory tract causing no visible symptoms. The bacteria spread through contact with an infected individual through a cough or sneeze.
17018	Similar to other forms of spina bifida, Meningoencephalocele is caused by the failure of the neural tube to close completely during fetal development, thus exposing the spinal cord and creating the protrusions. There have been studies linking the condition to a deficiency in folic acid.
17020	Meniscus tear is a result of too much activity which makes a person rotate his or her knee with force. Also, in some cases the too much kneeling, lifting also results the tearing of the meniscus. Degenerative changes especially in the knee area in elderly causes the meniscus tear.
17021	The symptoms of Menkes disease are attributed to abnormalities in intestinal copper absorption along with secondary deficiencies in copper-dependent mitochonrial enzymes. The disease is linked to mutations of the ATP7A gene, which is involved in distributing copper to cells in the body.
17022	The causes of menopause can be considered from complementary proximate (mechanistic) and ultimate (adaptive evolutionary) perspectives. From a proximate perspective: A natural and physiological menopause is that which occurs as a part of a woman's normal aging process. This is the result of the eventual atresia of almost all oocytes in the ovaries. This causes an increase in circulating follicle stimulating hormone (FSH) and luteinizing hormone (LH) levels as there are a decreased number of oocytes responding to these hormones and producing estrogen.
17023	Number of conditions may cause menorrhagia: Hormonal imbalance, Uterine fibroids, Polyps, Dysfunction of the ovaries, Adenomyosis, Intrauterine device (IUD), pregnancy complications, cancer, and medication of certain drug.
17024	Many believe that primary dysmenorrhea is directly caused prostaglandins, which trigger the contraction of the uterine muscles. The condition may also be partly caused by an increase in leukotriene levels. The former are hormone-like substances involved in pain and inflammation while the latter are substances involved in inflammation. Secondary dysmenorrheal may be caused by conditions such as endometriosis, adenomyosis, pelvic inflammatory disease, using an intrauterine device, and uterine fibroids and uterine polyps.
17025	Specific causes of mental retardation include Downs syndrome, fetal alcohol syndrome and Fragile X syndrome. Other conditions that have been identified as also causing mental retardation include malnutrition, problems during pregnancy and during birth and mineral deficiencies.
17026	Meralgia parenthetica is commonly caused by compression or entrapment of the nerves, such as exertion of the pelvis, thigh, or hip area. Other forms of meralgia parenthetica are caused by underlying disorders such as a spinal cord nerve disease.
17027	Meralgia paresthetica (burning thigh pain) is caused by a compression of the lateral femoral cutaneous nerve, or the nerve that supplies sensation the skin surface of the upper leg. The nerve compression that leads to burning thigh pain may be caused by tight clothing, weight gain, obesity, or pregnancy. In some cases, the condition is caused by a nerve injury arising from trauma or from a disease such as diabetes.
17028	While the exact cause of merasmus is not currently known or understood, the disease is believed to result from severe deficiencies of essential nutrients in the body, particularly from deficits of protein and calories.
17029	The cause is exposure to mercury or any of its toxic compounds in sufficient amounts to affect the body. Being a cumulative heavy metal poison that occurs in elemental form, inorganically as salts, or organically as compounds, these variations offer varying degrees of toxicity. Eating fish laden with mercury is the leading cause of exposure.
17030	There is no definite cause of Merkel cell cancer, but recent research indicates a genetic origin of the disease.
17031	Atherosclerosis which leads to a clot or an embolus is one of the most common causes as restricted blood flow is contributive to the condition. An embolus in particular can travel to a mesenteric artery, blocking blood flow. Other possible causes include aortic dissection, occlusion or blockage of the veins in the bowel area and coagulation disorders.
17032	Mesentric Lymphadenitis is caused by a viral infections especially that of the yersinia, the most common bacteria associated with the Mesentric Lymphadenitis.
17033	The cause is of course exposure which often occurs when it is work related; when the job site has asbestos particles like dust and fibre. Even simple home renovation can cause exposure if dealing with products which have asbestos.
17034	Causes include the following; massive rhabdomyolysis, sulfates, metformin, paraldehyde, organic acids, lactic acidosis, ketoacidosis, chronic renal failure and intoxication.
17035	Metabolic disorders are usually genetically acquired due to missing or improperly constructed enzymes needed in the cell's metabolic process. Other types of metabolic disorders are the results of diet, toxins, or infections.
17036	The specific cause of metabolic syndrome has not been pinpointed, but current research efforts are attempting to understand the processes that link the group of disorders involved in metabolic syndrome. A combination of genetic and environmental factors is also believed to play a role, including: being genetically prone to insulin resistance; being overweight; inheriting the condition from parents; etc.
17037	The cause of this metabolic syndrome is unknown as its pathophysiology is very complex and has only been recently studied and elucidated. But most sufferers tend to be older, are likely obese, sedentary, and have a degree of insulin resistance.
17039	Metachromatic leukodystrophy results from a deficiency of an enzyme called Arylsulfatase A. The lack or absence of this essential enzyme causes sulfatides to accumulate in multiple tissues throughout the body, eventually destroying the myelin of the nervous system. Metachromatic leukodystrophy is inherited via the autosomal recessive trait.
17040	The process of a cancer becoming metastatic involves a complex series of steps wherein the tumor migrates from the original site to other parts of the body via the lymphatic system or the blood stream. Cancerous cells first separate from the primary tumor, and then attach to and degrade the proteins in the surrounding extracellular matrix, which then breaks the tumor from the adjoining tissue. By degrading these proteins, the malignant cells are able to escape the extracellular matrix and spread elsewhere.
17041	It is an inherited condition.
17042	Methaemoglobinaemia is caused by elevated levels of a type of hemoglobin called methemoglobin in blood. It may come in one of two forms: congenital methaemoglobinaemia and acquired methaemoglobinaemia. Congenital methaemoglobinaemia results from an inborn deficiency of the enzyme diaphorase; while acquired methaemoglobinaemia results from exposure to exogenous oxidizing drugs and their metabolites, which accelerates the rate with which methemoglobin forms in the blood.
17043	Leading causes of antibiotic resistance include: Unnecessary antibiotic use in humans are like other superbugs, MRSA is the result of decades of excessive and unnecessary antibiotic use. Antibiotics in food and water this is prescript drugs aren't the only source of antibiotics. Germ mutation also when antibiotics are used appropriately, they contribute to the rise of drug-resistant bacteria because they don't destroy every germ they target.
17044	As an autosomal or inherited disorder, the defect occurs specifically in the metabolic pathway where the enzyme methylmalonyl-CoA mutase converts methylmalonyl-coenzyme A. But because the defect disables effective vitamin B12 metabolism, this doesn't happen. Even when the disorder is not present, a severe deficiency of the vitamin can also trigger the disorder.
17047	The causes of the disease are unknown.
17049	Microcephaly may result in the exposure of the fetus to harmful substances while in the development stage during which the mother may be alcoholic, may have acquired German measles, or has diabetes. Patients may have also inherited the condition through their genes.
17052	Newborns with microphthalmia may be due to infections during pregnancy or Fetal alcohol syndrome.
17053	The cause of the condition is has not been identified. But some researchers believe that the inflammation is triggered by bacteria and their toxins or a virus. Others hypothesize that it is an autoimmune problems caused by the body's own immune system mistakenly attacking and damaging healthy cells as foreign invaders.
17054	Microscopic Hematuria is a result of the blood cell leakage in the urine which may in turn be a result of certain conditions like urinary tract infection, kidney or bladder stone and enlarged prostate. Strenous exercise may also result the condition.
17055	The causes of the condition is unknown but some reports note that antibiotics or some infections may be the cause.
17056	Microsporidiosis in HIV patients is caused when the CD4+ T cell counts decreases below 100. The infection is by at least 14 microsporidian species.
17058	The disease is genetically inherited and caused by a congenital lack of apical microvilli in the epithelial cells of the small intestine.
17059	Some migraines have a genetic factor while others are acquired due to hormone organ disease or injury.
17059	Migraines can be caused by functional changes in the trigeminal nerve system, a major pain pathway in your nervous system, and by imbalances in brain chemicals, including serotonin, which plays a regulatory role for pain messages going through this pathway.
17060	Migraine with Aura is said to be causes by an electrical or chemical wave that usually moves across the visual cortex. Hormonal changes, stres and sensory stimulus are likely said to cause the condition.
17061	The exact cause of the condition is not known. However, it is usually a benign and chronic condition resulting to complication of a disease other than Mikulicz's disease such as lymphoma, leukemia, or uveoparotid fever.
17063	It is usually caused by neurodegenerative disorders, vascular disorders, trauna and psychiatric conditions.
17064	Milia is more often caused by the formation or the development of the unusual tiny skin flakes that is usually trapped or stucked in the small pockets of the surface of the infant's skin.
17065	Your autonomic nervous system stimulates the eccrine glands of your sweat glands to secrete perspiration when your core temperature rises, where the perspiration travels through ducts to the surface of your skin, where it cools your body as it evaporates. When some of the eccrine sweat ducts become plugged, heat rash develops and instead of evaporating, perspiration remains trapped beneath the skin, causing the inflammation and rash.
17066	All food related allergies are triggered by a malfunction of the immune system. The body releases histamine to ware off the allergens which causes the symptoms associated with the allergic reactions. Among the most common mild products that trigger allergy inclu8de casein and whey. Parents are advised to consult their doctor for possible milk alternatives.
17067	The body's immune response to foreign antigens but mistargeted to host nerve tissues instead is the cause of Miller Fisher Syndrome.
17068	An incomplete neuronal migration causes the disease.
17069	It is cause by the blocking of sweat glands and thus, trapping the perspiration in the skin which causes the rashes. Such blocking of sweat glands may be due to the immature sweat ducts, as in the case of infants, hot and humid weather, intense physical activities, or it may be due to clothes that does not allow perspiration.
17070	Mineral deficiency may be caused by an inadequate diet or insufficient mineral intake. In some cases, however, mineral deficiency is a symptom of some other underlying condition, such as hydatidosis and congenital short bowel syndrome.
17071	Minimal change disease is caused by allergies to certain foods and medications, immunoglobulins and hematological malignancies. The disease also affects T lymphocytes causing hemoglobin-related problems.
17072	Hemolytic anemia can be acquired or inherited.
17073	Mitochondrial disease is an inherited condition that runs in families (genetic). There is an uncertain percentage of patients acquire symptoms due to other factors, including mitochondrial toxins. It is important to know which type of mitochondrial disease inheritance is present, in order to predict the risk of recurrence for future children.
17074	Mitochondrial diseases are usually inherited by most patients, while others through the exposure of toxins triggering the disease.
17075	The disorder may manifest during infancy or late in life. The patient may suffer attacks which are triggered by fasting or a viral infection.
17076	It is a congenital condition.
17077	The underlying etiology that causes the autonomic dysregulation and the structural abnormalities appearing to the associated with MVP remain unclear.
17078	Mitral valve prolapse is caused by the displacement of an abnoramally thick mitral valve leaflet into the left atrium during systole. The disease frequently occur in persons with Marfan syndrome.
17079	The causes of the disease are varied, depending on the symptom. Chest pains may be brought about by anxiety or panic attack while dizziness may be a side effect of numerous medications.
17080	Mitral Valve Regurgitation is caused by mitral valve prolapse whereby the mitral valve is weaken, damaged tissue cords that usually anchors the flaps of the mitral valve to the heart wall, rheumatic fever, endocarditis, deterioration of the valve due to aging and untreated high blood pressure and onset of heart attacks.
17081	Mitral valve stenosis is said to be caused by rheumatic fever which causes the leaflets of the valve to thicken causing it to limit its way of opening; congenital heart defects, blood clots, tumors in the the mitral valve and even medications such as those used to treat migraine may also in some cases causes the condition.
17082	Mittelschmerz direct cause is still unknown but it usually occurs when the woman ovulate where the woman may cause pain before the egg is released with ovulation. It may be said to be caused by a blood or fluid that is released from the ruptured follicle which irritates the lining of the abdomen.
17083	MCTD's fundamental cause remains unknown. Proposed current theories include the loss of T lymphocyte and B lymphocyte tolerance, initiated by cryptic self-antigens, abnormalities of apoptosis, or molecular mimicry by infectious agents.
17084	The disease is caused by the abnormal development of the cranial nerves, usually cranial nerves VI and VII, though there are times that cranial nerves V and VIII are also affected.
17085	MODY diabetes or Maturity Onset Diabetes is caused by a dominant inheritance of insulin secretion defects.
17086	MODY is inherited in an autosomal dominant fashion. Most patients commonly have diabetic family members.
17087	The abnormal development of the cranial nerves causes the disorder, usually cranial nerves VI and VII, though there are times that cranial nerves V and VIII are also affected.
17088	The Moersch-Woltmann syndrome is an autoimmune disease; it can be caused by other disorders such as thyroiditis and type 1 diabetes.
17089	Moeschler Clarren syndrome is known to develop during the fetal stage of pregnancy. It is when some form of vascular problem leads to clotting and a poor supply of blood to the face. Though there is some evidence that the disease is hereditary, a physical trauma usually causes it, which restricts the developmental ability of that area of the face.
17090	For people who are highly sensitive to mold have an allergic reaction when the body comes in contact with mold spores, as the immune system identifies it as a foreign product. This triggers the release of histamine in the body and antibodies that would remember this invade. This means, when at a later date the body comes in contact again with mold, it will automatically trigger an allergic reaction.
17091	Heredity, as well as exposure of skin to sunlight have the tendency to develop atypical moles.
17092	Moles are said to be caused by an uneven distribution of melanin whereby melanocytes group together and form moles.
17093	MC is caused by the poxvirus Molluscum contagiosum. People may get this though direct contact with people who have the disease or sharing towels and clothing.
17094	A flattened cochlea is known to be the cause or the disorder. The condition also includes underdeveloped vestibular structures and their associated neural elements.
17095	The pathophysiology of the disease presents a pressure on the vein with stagnation of blood or as a direct trauma to the vein itself. The cause for the disease is not pinpointed but those who have it but do not have the aforementioned evidence; the reasonable explanation is the repeated movement of the breast along with the contracting and relaxing pectoral muscles.
17096	It is believed that the condition arises due to an excessive production of red blood cells, which increases the oxygen carrying capacity of the blood. But it may also cause greater viscosity and uneven blood flow through the lungs.
17097	The KRTHB1, KRTHB3 or KRTHB6 genes are mutated in the condition code for type II hair cortex keratins. Simply put, it is said to be likely cause by a mutation in a hair keratin.
17098	This kind of fungus develops due to excessive use of birth control pills and antibiotics.
17099	The disease is caused by Monkeypox virus. This belongs to a group of viruses that includes the smallpox virus (variola), the virus used in the smallpox vaccine (vaccinia), and the cowpox virus.
17100	Some theories applicable to the pathogenesis of multiple myeloma may also be valid for MGUS but the cause remains unknown.
17101	The exact cause of monomelic amyotrophy remains unknown. However, current theories point to the following as possible contributing factors: viral infections; vascular insufficiency (inadequate blood supply) of the spinal cord; strenuous physical activity; recent trauma or injury; radiation injury; as well as atrophy of the spinal cord.
17102	The causes of mononeuritis multiplex are most commonly associated with diabetes mellitus and multiple nerve compressions.
17103	There are two viruses can cause mononucleosis (mono): the Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) and cytomegalovirus (CMV). Both viruses are part of the herpes family, whose other members include the viruses in charge for cold sores and chickenpox.
17104	There is insufficient evidence to find a single (or multiple) cause, but the leading theories for proximate causes include: An increase in the circulating level of the hormone estrogen. Estrogen levels may increase by up to hundredfold during pregnancy. An increase in progesterone relaxes the muscles on the uterus, which prevents early childbirth, but may also relax the stomach and intestines, leading to excess stomach acids. Is an increase in human chorionic gonadotropin. Increase the sensitivity to odors, which over stimulates normal nausea triggers.
17105	At present the direct cause of the Morphea is still unknown though it may be linked to the reaction and activity of the immune system.
17106	A deficiency in the enzyme N-acetylgalactosamine-6-sulfate sulfatase causes Type A Morquio syndrome.
17107	Type B Morquio syndrome is caused by a deficiency of the enzyme beta-galactosidase.
17108	A deficiency in the enzyme N-acetylgalactosamine-6-sulfate sulfatase causes Type A Morquio syndrome.
17109	It is still not known what causes the Morton's Neuroma but it usually occurs after an irritation or pressure even injury in the digital nerves which leads to the toes. Wearing high heeled shoes, strenous activities like too much jogging and injury to the foot are factors which contribute to the occurrence of the condition.
17110	The disease is caused by autoimmune disorders that affect the central nervous system.
17112	Motion sickness occurs when the body, the inner ear, and the eyes send conflicting signals to the brain. This reaction is generally provoked by a moving vehicle like car, boat, airplane, or space shuttle, but it may also happen on flight simulators or amusement park rides.
17113	According to studies, about 90% of MND are sporadic, which means that it is not hereditary and the disease occurred without a known cause. Genetic factors are however important in determining an individual's susceptibility to the disease. There is also some weak support that onset can be triggered by yet to be determined environmental factors.
17114	The absence of proteins is said to be the cause of the disorder. Proteins are very essential for the nerves to normally function so the absence of said chemical substances leads to dysfunction in either the axon or the myelin sheath of the nerve cell.
17115	Although theories state that Mounier-Kuhn may be congenital, the cause is yet to be determined.
17116	Episodes may be caused by several factors. Among them are moderate to high consumption of stimulants such as alcohol, caffeine, or nicotine, low amounts of energy due to lack of sleep, illness or physical fatigue, moderate to high presence of stress, and hormonal imbalances such as menstrual cycles.
17117	Mouth Cancer is said to be caused by the damage of the DNA in the cells of the mouth and throat brought about by excessive smoking and alcohol consumption. It may also be caused by too much exposure to ultraviolet light.
17118	Mouth ulcers are caused by a break in the epithelium or the mucous membrane on the lips or surrounding mouth, often as a result of several factors such as: physical or chemical trauma; bacterial or viral infections; underlying medical conditions; certain medications; as well as cancerous and nonspecific processes.
17119	Though there is no clinical evidence about the causes of the disease, it is believed to be hereditary. In 1997 Fukui reported a family history in 10% of patients with Moyamoya disease. Genetic studies also revealed that susceptibility loci have been found on 3p, 6p, 17q, and band 8q23.
17120	MPO has hereditary and acquired forms though the latter is less common. Hereditary MPO can be caused by a number of mutations including R569W, Y173C, M251T, and G501S. The acquired form, which is an enzyme defect, can be corrected when the underlying condition is resolved. Most cases of the acquired form are partial and only affect a proportion of neutrophils.
17122	The disease is caused by a defect in the CIAS1 gene, which creates the protein cryopyrin.
17123	The causes of oral mucocele provide that the most frequently injured glands are the minor salivary glands of the lower lip. With the tissue of the lower lip becoming caught between the maxillary anterior teeth and the mandibular anterior teeth during the mastication or with the habit of biting one's lip, the mechanism of injury is mechanical. When injury to the minor salivary glands occurs usually secondary to trauma (such as biting one's lip, chronic inflammation with periductal scarring and minor salivary gland sialolithiasis), oral mucoceles occur. Other causes include the baby sucking his or her fingers in utero or the baby passing through the birth canal; and the use of forceps during delivery or suctioning of the baby's mouth after birth.
17124	The exact cause of the Mucocutaneous Lymph Node Syndromeis not yet known but it is said to be caused by bacteria, viruses and pollution.
17125	As cited, deficiency of the lyosomal enzyme as well as genetic factors cause the disorder.
17126	MPS III is caused by the excess in heparan sulfate accumulating in the lyosomes of tissues and organs, leading to diverse morphological abnormalities. Genetic causes are transmitted as an autosomal recessive trait.
17127	Type A of this Mucopolysaccharidosis is caused by a deficiency of the enzyme N-acetylgalactosamine-6-sulfate sulfatase while type B is caused by a deficiency of the enzyme beta-galactosidase.
17128	The disease is brought about by a deficiency of the lysosomal enzyme a-L-iduronidase. Accumulation of the undergraded mucopolysaccharides DS and HS in tissues and organs and storage of excess mucopolysaccharides also causes the condition.
17129	People with the disease are unable to make a substance called lyosomal alpha-L-iduronidase. It is also inherited.
17130	Indiciduals with Scheie syndrome have an absence of a substance called lysosomal-alpha-L-iduronidase. This substance is an enzyme that helps break down long chanins of sugar molecules. Said molecules are found throughout the body, often in mucus and in fluid around the joints. When the sugar molecules build up it can damage the organs.
17131	Just like the other MPS illnesses, Hunter syndrome is genetic.
17132	A deficiency of the enzyme idunorate-2-sulfatase (l2S) causes both the mild and severe form of the disease.
17133	Type A of this Mucopolysaccharidosis is caused by a deficiency of the enzyme N-acetylgalactosamine-6-sulfate sulfatase while type B is caused by a deficiency of the enzyme beta-galactosidase.
17134	A deficiency in the enzyme arylsulfatase B basically causes the disease. It is genetic and is transmitted from parents to children.
17135	Sly syndrome is genetic and is therefore passed from parents to children.
17136	Mucormycosis is often caused by common fungi which can be found in soil and decaying vegetation. Although most individuals are exposed to the fungi on a regular basis those with immune disorders are more prone to an infection.
17137	The disease is caused by mutations in the TRIM37 gene on chromosome 17q22-q23.
17139	Factors that cause multi-infarct dementia are closely correlated to factors that increase the risk of blood clots (or arteriosclerosis). Any of the following are known risk factors for multi-infarct dementia: smoking; high cholesterol; high blood pressure; type 1 and type 2 diabetes; irregularities in heart beat; as well as occlusion of blood vessels leading to the brain.
17140	Benign PVCs are commonly cause by anxiety since it increases levels of adrenaline. Caffeine and exercise can also cause the rise in adrenaline level. Among adults, cocaine, ampethamines, and alcohol may cause PVC. Some medicines are also known to trigger PVC attacks namely digoxin, sympathomimetics, tricyclic antidepressants, and aminophylline.
17141	Currently there is no clear accord on what causes MCS.
17142	MEN1 is genetic in which patients inherit a mutation in a tumor suppressor gene called MEN1 on band 11q13. Protein and menin are among these genes.
17143	The gain-of-function variant of a RET gene generally results in MEN2. MEN2 can also be inherited and transmitted in an autosomal dominant pattern. There are some cases however that result from spontaneous new mutations in the RET gene, which means it may occur even to those with no family history of the disorder.
17144	MHE is passed by the genes of affected parents towards their offspring. It is autosomal dominant, which means of one of the parents has the condition, there is a 50% possibility that any of the children will also develop MHE.
17145	The disease begins when new cells form when the body doesn't need them and old cells do not die when they should. The extra cells then form a mass of tissue and become a growth of tumor.
17146	MODS is caused by an overwhelming, unrestrained systemic inflammatory response that is activated by a number of unreceptive stimuli including sepsis, hypovolemic shock, and severe trauma that lead to massive tissue injury.
17147	Dissociative Identity disorders is said to be caused by a mechanism of the body especially of the mind to deal with the peron's experience of trauma and even abuse.
17148	There is no definitive cause found for MS. It likely occurs as a result of some combination of both environmental and genetic factors and various theories try to integrate the known data into plausible explanations. Autoimmune explanations are accepted but a couple of theories suggest that the disease is an appropriate response to one or several underlying conditions. Poor results of present therapies are therefore supported by the need for alternative theories.
17149	The cause of the loss of nerve cells in multiple system atrophy is not known.
17150	The disease is caused by the Paramyxovirus and is mainly transmitted by infected saliva.
17151	There is no known exact cause for the syndrome but researchers believe that biological and psychological factors have roles in its development. Theories such as child abuse and history of frequent illnesses requiring hospitalization are also looked up.
17152	Murray Valley encephalitis is caused by a zoonotic mosquito-borne flavivirus called Murray Valley encephalitis virus (MVEV) endemic to Papua New Guinea and northern Australia. Transmission to humans is usually through bites of infected mosquitoes.
17153	Muscle contraction headache is mostly ascribed to sustained tension to the muscles. However, certain other triggers may be responsible, including emotional factors such as depression and anxiety, as well as underlying medical conditions such as degenerative arthritis of the neck and temporomandibular joint dysfunction (TMD). In addition, poor personal posture may also be a possible cause.
17154	Muscles cramps result from the overuse of a muscle, dehydration, injury, or a position held for prolonged periods of time. Circulatory or nerve problems may also cause the problem as well as mineral depletion, inadequate blood supply, and nerve compression.
17155	Muscle dysmorphia can cause people to: Constantly examine them in a mirror. Do not appreciate their reflections. Become distressed if they miss a workout session or one of six meals per day. Become distressed if a person does not receive enough protein per day in their diet. Take potentially dangerous anabolic steroids
17156	A muscle strain is caused by too much stretching or when a muscle is pull too far and in abrupt manner.
17157	Muscular dystrophy conditions are genetic and follow various inheritance patterns. Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD) for one is inherited in an X-linked recessive pattern, which means that the mutated gene that causes the disorder is located on the X chromosome, and is considered sex-linked.
17158	DMD is caused by a mutation in a specific gene within the X chromosome that provides instructions for the formation of the dystrophin protein. Dystrophin is an important structural component of muscle tissue.
17159	Being an autosomal dominant disease, up to one third of the cases appear to be the result of de novo (new) mutations.
17160	Though the cause of CFS is unknown, a large number of causes have been proposed such as neurological abnormalities, psychiatric abnormalities, stress and trauma, oxidative stress, psychoneuroimmunological interactions, endocrine dysfunction, gene expression, genetic polymorphisms, metabolic disorders, and toxic agents.
17161	The symptoms of the disease particularly weakness is caused by circulating antibodies that block acetylcholine receptors at the post-synaptic neuromuscular junction, restraining the stimulative effect of the neurotransmitter acetylcholine.
17162	The symptoms of the disease mainly weakness, is brought about by circulating antibodies that obstruct acetylcholine receptors at the post-synaptic neuromuscular junction, restraining the stimulative effect of the neurotransmitter acetylcholine.
17163	Individuals working on and exposed to agricultural works are the ones commonly affected by this condition. In general, men between the ages of 20 and 40 y/o are the ones usually affected. The occurrence of Mycetoma is associated with contact to grains of bacterial and fungal spores discharged into the soil. Infected area often involves an open would on the skin.
17164	Mycobacterium avium complex infections are caused by a range of bacteria belonging to the Mycobacterium genus, including Mycobacterium avium subspecies hominis (MAH), Mycobacterium avium subspecies avium (MAA), and Mycobacterium avium subspecies paratuberculosis (MAP). MAC bacteria are present in the environment and can infect humans when inhaled or swallowed. A MAC infection may also develop as a result of a weakened immune system, such as in the cases of HIV/AIDS infections.
17165	Mycoplasma pneumoniae is transmitted through respiratory droplets. Contact with contaminated secretions from the respirator passage (such as phlegm) can lead to an infection. The organism attaches itself to the mucosa of a host human, extracting nutrients and reproducing by binary fashion.
17166	Mycoplasmal pneumonia is caused by a very small bacterium, mycoplasma pneumoniae, in the class Mollicutes. Bacteria is transferred or transmitted to another person through respiratory droplets.
17167	The cause of this condition is unknown. It is not characterized as a hereditary disease and is not associated with genetics. Mycosis fungoides is also non-contagious.
17168	What causes mycosis fungoides lymphoma is unknown. It is not characterized as a hereditary disease and is not associated with genetics. Mycosis fungoides lymphoma is also non-contagious.
17173	Multiple myeloma begins with one abnormal plasma cell in your bone marrow the soft, blood producing tissue that fills in the center of most of your bones. This abnormal cell then begins to multiply.
17174	Myelomeningocele is an inherited disease and may be even caused by an environmental risk factors such as those with problems with diabetes, neural tube defects and folic acid deficiency.
17175	It is quite difficult to interpret the genetics of this disorder based on varying familial expressions. Among 17 reported cases, autosomal recessive inheritance had been proved in 7 cases and had also been considered likely among the 8 others due to the pre-existence of 2 or 3 deficient individuals within the family.
17176	Three main families of flies are primarily cause economically significant myiasis in livestock and sometimes, on certain occasions, in humans. These are the Oestroidea or botflies, Calliphoridae or blowflies and Sarcophagidae or fleshflies. Sometimes, other families are also involved such as the Anisopodidae, Piophilidae and Stratiomyidae.
17177	MADD is as a recessive genetic metabolic disorder.
17178	Myocardial Infarction or heart attack is caused by the interruption of blood flow in the heart. It usually results when the arteries which supplies the heart with blood that is rich in oxygen become clocked. The blocking of the arteries is said to be caused by the build up of cholesterol.
17179	Myocarditis typically has infectious causes - including viral (e.g. enterovirus, Coxsackie virus, rubella virus, polio virus, cytomegalovirus, possibly hepatitis C), bacterial (e.g. brucella, Corynebacterium diphtheriae, gonococcus, Haemophilus influenzae, Actinomyces, Tropheryma whipplei, and Vibrio cholerae), spirochetal (Borrelia burgdorferi and leptospirosis), protozoal (Toxoplasma gondii and Trypanosoma cruzi), fungal (e.g. aspergillus), parasitic (e.g. ascaris, Echinococcus granulosus, Paragonimus westermani, schistosoma, Taenia solium, Trichinella spiralis, visceral larva migrans, and Wuchereria bancrofti), and rickettsial. In some cases, the cause may be immunological - such as an allergic reaction, the body's rejection of a heart transplant, or the body's reaction to certain autoantigens (e.g. systemic vasculitis such as Churg-Strauss syndrome, Wegener's granulomatosis). Some cases were also found to have toxic roots. Drugs, toxins, and heavy metals are known to have resulted in myocarditis. Certain physical agents such as electric shock, hyperpyrexia, and radiation can be similarly fatal.
17180	Myoclonic jerks may occur singly or sequentially, with or without a pattern, frequently or infrequently. Although myoclonus can occur by itself, Myoclonus is more commonly a sign of a wide range of neurological disorders; including multiple sclerosis, Parkinson's disease, Alzheimer's, Subacute sclerosing panencephalitis, Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease and some forms of epilepsy. Myoclonus may be caused by lesions of the cortex, subcortex, or spinal cord. It may also result from an infection, a stroke, brain tumors, liver or kidney failure, lipid storage disease, chemical or drug poisoning, or other disorders.
17181	Myoclonus epilepsy - or most forms of myoclonus, for that matter - results from a malfunction or defect in the central nervous system. The malfunction may occur in the cortex or in the brainstem, or elsewhere in the brain. While the exact cause of myoclonus epilepsy is not known to date, it has been linked to an imbalance in neurotransmitters or brain chemicals that leads to a miscommunication between nerve cells, particularly those that control movement.
17182	Myofacial Pain Syndrome is caused by the trigger points or those sensitive areas of the tight muscles fibers which can occur due to injury.
17183	Myoglobinuria typically results from a number of factors - including venom absorption, trauma, vascular problems, drug ingestion, and other scenarios which can damage or destroy the muscle. In these situations, the body reacts by releasing myoglobin to the circulation, thus consequently reaching the kidneys. Under ideal conditions, the myoglobin may be filtered and excreted through the urine. However, if an excessive amount of myoglobin is released, it can damage the renal filtration system, eventually leading to acute tubular necrosis and acute renal insufficiency.
17184	The exact cause of myoma is not yet known but it is however, linked to genetic alteration especially those gene codes for uterine muscle cells; hormones and the chemical-intake of a person such as those taking insulin.
17185	Idiopathic myopathies are mostly immunological in origin. Some are correlated with connective tissue disease. Acute alcoholic myopathy is possible in patients who experience extreme muscle pain and limb weakness after drinking huge amounts of alcohol. Myopathy may also have infectious origins, including trichinosis, cysticercosis, toxoplasmosis, HIV, influenza, and lyme disease. Endocrine myopathy may result from Addison disease, Cushing's, hyperthyroidism, hypothyroidism, or hyperparathyroidism. Some forms of myopathy are also caused by drug ingestion or high toxic absorption. Steroids in prolonged doses, AZT, Lovastatin, Cocaine, Colchicine, and Amiodarone are some of the most common causes.
17186	Myotubular myopathy is considered a congenital myopathy because it is typically present at birth. Other centronuclear myopathies may appear later in life.
17187	Genetically acquired CNM is associated with the X-linked form of myotubular myopathy. Roughly 80% of men with myotubular myopathy have mutations in MTM1, and approximately 7% of these mutations are genetic deletions.
17188	Several theories exist as to the origins of myopia. A combination of genetic and environmental factors is believed to play a role. For example, the work environment (such as daily exposure to computers, excessive reading habits, etc.) may aggravate an individual's retina, thus resulting in myopia. However, a genetic susceptibility to environmental conditions also leads to myopic progression.
17189	Myopia occurs when an individual has long eyeballs or steep corneas. As a result, collimated light produces image focus in front of the retina. In other words, the image is focused inside the eye rather than on the retina of the back of the eye, as is normal.
17190	The root cause of the myositis disease is currently unknown. Causal theories focus on the autoimmune aspect of the condition, with autoimmunity leading to inflammation of specific areas, thus resulting in muscle damage and even muscle death.
17191	Although the specific cause of myositis ossificans is, as yet, unknown, it most commonly develops within an area of the muscle that has sustained severe bruising, often from direct contact. In such cases, the area is crushed between the underlying bone and the intervening object (in sports injuries, examples are helmets, another person's knees or elbows, or even a wayward ball). The patients become predisposed to the condition through an abrupt resumption of normal activities following an injury.
17192	Myositis ossificans progressiva is a congenital condition, an inherited affliction usually caused by mutations in the ACVRI gene. The ACVRI is the gene responsible for producing morphogenetic protein (BMP) type I receptors, which are found in many tissues including the skeletal muscle and cartilage. The ACVRI protein helps control the development and growth of muscles and bones. From birth to young adulthood, it is this protein family that aids in the gradual replacement of cartilage by bone ossification in the normal skeletal maturation. Myositis ossificans progressiva is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is enough to cause the condition.
17193	The disease is caused by a variety of reasons: it can be an X-linked recessive disorder, or an enzymatic deficiency.
17195	Myxedema may be caused by both hyperthyroid and hypothyroid conditions. Elevated levels of hyaluronic acid and chondroitin sulfate accumulate in the dermis in both lesional and normal skin.
17196	Myxoid cysts are not derived from the joint or tendon sheath because they are not synovial cysts nor are they ganglia as commonly believed. They also often appear at the site of an old injury, sites of minor trauma and sites of friction.
17198	Similar to Dermatopathia pigmentosa reticularis, Negeli syndrome is a genetic defect that results from a deficiency in a particular protein known as keratin 14. Naegeli is a skin condition inherited via autosomal dominant pattern. This rare abnormality can leave carriers without any fingerprints or ridges on the skin.
17199	Naegleria infections are caused by Naegleria fowleri, a type of amoeba that thrives in fresh water and soil. The naegleria organism typically infects humans by entering the nose and making its way into the brain. Once inside the brain, the amoeba causes an inflammation and damages the brain tissue. The amoeba thrives in warm fresh water, such as ponds, lakes, hot springs, warm water discharge from industrial plants, as well as improperly maintained pools. Those who swim or play water sports in such bodies of water may be exposed to the naegleria amoeba. Infection may also occur when dust from contaminated soil is inhaled.
17200	Naegleria Infection is caused by a Naegleria Fowleri Amoeba which lives in fresh waters, like lakes and lagoons, and enters through the nose through the nasal mucous membranes and makes it way to the brain through the olfactory nerve.
17201	Nail avulsion often results from trauma or injury on the affected area. There are several possible scenarios leading to nail avulsion; some of them are: slamming a door on a finger or dropping a heavy object on a toe, among others.
17202	It is cause by the fungi referred to as the dermatophytes. It is also said to be caused by yeasts and molds that usually thrive in dark, moist area of the shoes.
17203	The nail-patella syndrome is often correlated to an aberrancy or mutation of the q arm (i.e. longer arm) of the human chromosome 9, 9q34. It is inherited via autosomal dominancy, which means that only one copy (instead of the entire pair) is sufficient for the condition to be passed on to the offspring. In other words, the chance of this disorder being inherited from an affected parent is fifty percent (50%).
17204	Nappy rash is usually caused by bacteria and fungi infections on the skin. When the bowel is not properly washed and dried after the baby defecates.
17205	Some evidence links the cause to a dysfunctional childhood, such as excessive pampering, extremely high expectations, abuse or neglect. Other evidence points to genetics or psychobiology the relation between the brain and behavior and thinking.
17206	To date, the cause of this disorder is yet unknown. However, researches have identified conditions that may increase one's susceptibility to the condition. For example, recent studies have unveiled the correlation between narcoleptics and certain predisposed genetic factors. One possible cause may be rooted in the chromosome 6 of the HLA complex. On the other hand, in spite of experimental proof that narcolepsy may be genetic in nature, the mode of inheritance has not yet been determined.
17207	The cause of Narcolepsy is not yet determined but experts have discovered certain factors and conditions including genetic factors; that put an individual at a greater risk of developing the disorder.
17208	Nasal Polyps is said to be cause by an ongoing inflammation which often results from viral or bacterial infection, allergies or due to the body's immune system response to fungus. The inflammation causes the blood vessels located in the lining and the sinus of the nose to be permeable which thereafter allows water to accumulate in the cells which eventually produced polyps.
17209	There is no exact cause that led to the development of the cancer. However, eating too much salty foods increase the risk of having a tumor grow on one's nasopharynx. The Epstein-Barr virus can also make the person prone to acquiring the cancer.
17210	* Several studies have associated Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) infection to the development of nasopharyngeal infection. * Some evidences are also presented linking genetic factors as causative factors for nasopharyngeal carcinoma. * Dietary and lifestyle risk factors are also closely related to nasopharyngeal carcinoma.
17211	Being a variant of ARVD, the real cause of Naxos Disease is still unknown; however there are two pathological patterns seen in Arrhythmogenic Right Ventricular Dysplasia (ARVD), fatty infiltration involving a partial or near completion of myocardium with fatty tissue without wall thinning and fibro-fatty infiltration, which involves replacement of myocytes with fibrofatty tissue.
17212	Nearsightedness or Myopia is said to be caused when the cornea is unusually curved so instead of the light being focused on the retina, the light is focused in front of the retina which causes the blurriness of the objects that are distant. earsightedness is one type of refractive error. Nearsightedness can occur when your cornea is curved too much or when your eye is longer than normal. Instead of being focused precisely on your retina, light is focused in front of your retina, resulting in a blurry appearance for distant objects.
17213	Neck cancers often metastasize from the upper aerodigestive tract and spread to the lymph nodes of the neck. Neck cancer is linked to certain lifestyle and environmental risk factors, including: smoking tobacco; excessive alcohol consumption; as well as certain subtypes of human papillomavirus.
17214	Neck pain is said to be caused by different causes which may includes muscle strains, worn joint, injuries and even disk disorder whereby the cushioning disk in between the bones herniate thereby making it dry and stiff.
17215	The most common cause of necrotizing fasciitis is the Group A Streptococcus also known as Streptococcus pyogenes; however there are still other types of bacteria that cause the disease.
17217	Removal of adrenal glands for the purpose of treating Cushing's disease eliminates cortisol production. This situation can trigger any pre-existing pituitary tumor to grow rapidly without being noticed. Uninterrupted growth can bring about major negative consequences due to physical compression of the brain tissue.
17218	Nemaline myopathy is caused by a variety of genetic defects (through gene mutations) each of them has the capacity to affect one or more filament proteins necessary for muscle tone and muscle contraction.
17219	Neonatal ALD is caused by genetic factors. It is an inherited condition with an autosomal recessive pattern of inheritance. Neonatal ALD can affect both male and female babies.
17220	The causes of Neonatal Hemochromatosis is still not yet known; however there are researches undertaken that led to the assumption that this disease is an alloimmune disease: meaning, it can occur in patients in various conditions namely: * After blood and plasma transfusion * After grafts * In the fetus it can occur after maternal antibodies transfer into the fetus by passing through the placenta.
17221	The cause of neonatal hepatitis is still not yet known and established.
17222	The cause of neonatal herpes is often due to virus transmission from mother to fetus or infant.
17223	Neonatal jaundice is caused by an abnormal buildup of unconjugated bilirubin in the skin as a result of elevated bilirubin levels in the blood. Two factors have been known to play a role: the breakdown of fetal hemoglobin as it is being replaced with adult hemoglobin; and the inability of the infant's hepatic metabolic pathways to conjugate and excrete bilirubin. Other possible causes are underlying conditions such as: bile duct paucity, PFIC, biliary atresia, Alagille's syndrome, alpha 1 and a number of other pediatric liver diseases.
17224	Neonatal lupus is caused when a mother contracts lupus erythematosus or other collagen vascular disorders and consequently produces antibodies against the diseases. These antibodies are then passively transported across the placenta to the fetus, thus leading to neonatal lupus.
17225	Neonatal myasthenia occurs in infants born to mothers who have active (or, in some cases, in remission) acquired myasthenia gravis. The mother produces antibodies against the disease that are passed passively through the placenta to the infant, thus leading to neonatal myasthenia.
17226	Neonatal ophthalmitis is caused by an inflammation in the affected infant's eye. This inflammation may be due to a number of factors, including: chlamydial infection in a majority of known cases; chemical injury such as exposure to toxic antiseptics during delivery; and other forms of bacterial infections. In rare cases, gonorrhea infection may also be the causative factor.
17227	Neonatal respiratory distress syndrome results when an infant is born with underdeveloped lungs. The disorder is primarily caused by the absence of a surfactant, or a protective substance that enables the lungs to inflate with air and keeps the air sacs from collapsing. When an infant is born prematurely, its lungs or other organs may not have yet developed fully. In infants born with immature or underdeveloped lungs, neonatal respiratory disease syndrome can arise as a complication. In some cases, the disease may be caused by genetic problems with lung development.
17228	Tetanus is a disease caused by spores of Clostridium Tetani, a type of bacterium universally found in soil. These spores can infect a wound or the umbilical stump, leading to neonatal infection. Most neonatal tetanus cases occur when the baby has not acquired passive immunity because the mother has not been immunized against the infection.
17229	Neonatal jaundice can be caused by two factors: * Breakdown of fetal hemoglobin during replacement of adult hemoglobin * Relatively immature hepatic metabolic pathways, which are unable to conjugate leading to rapid bilirubin excretion similar with adults. Other causes of neonatal jaundice are the following: * Biliary atresia * Bile duct paucity * Alagilles's Syndrome * Alpha 1 * Other pediatric liver diseases * Rh incompatibility- wherein the mother's blood type is incompatible with the blood of the fetus, when this happen the antigens in the mother's blood will destroy the red blood cells of the fetus.
17230	Nephritis occurs as a consequence of certain infections, toxins, and a number of auto-immune diseases. In children, the leading causes of nephritis are: infection from the streptococcus bacteria; Henoch-Schnlein purpura; and haemolytic-uraemic syndrome. In adults, the most common underlying conditions that lead to nephritis are: vasculitis; abscesses, pneumonia, infections such as measles, hepatitis, mumps or glandular fever, and a number of other immune disorders that cause types of glomerulonephritis.
17231	It is said to be caused by an immature nerve cells of a fetus called a neuroblasts. Such neuroblast will turn into nerve cells that make up the adrenal glands which will eventually develops into a tumor.
17232	Causes of Nephrocalcinosis are subdivided based on the type of Nephrocalcinosis: cortical Nephrocalcinosis and medullary Nephrocalcinosis. Cortical Nephrocalcinosis is caused by many factors including: acute cortical necrosis, chronic glomerulonephritis, Alport syndrome, long drawn-out hypercalcemia and/or hypercalciuria, renal transplant rejection. Medullary Nephrocalcinosis is caused by any of the following: hyperparathyroidism, medullary sponge kidney, renal tubular acidosis, renal papillary necrosis, and renal tuberculosis, excessive urinary excretion of oxalate (hyperoxaluria), milk-alkali syndrome, immobility, hypervitaminosis D, and Sarcoidosis
17233	Diabetes Insipidus is caused by lack of Antidiuretic hormone (known as vasopressin) or by the kidney's insensitivity to that hormone. Diabetes Insipidus can also be generated by the administration of the diuretic conivaptan, which is a non-peptide inhibitor of Antidiuretic hormone (vasopressin).
17234	Nephropathy can be attributed to: long-term usage of analgesics; a deficiency in xanthine oxidase; as well as long-term exposure to lead or its salts. Analgesics that can cause nephropathy and other liver problems include acetaminophen, aspirin, and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs).
17235	Due to chronic hypertension, hyaline begins to accumulate in the small arteries and arteriole's wall; due to thi accumulation the walls will then begin to thicken and lumen (opening) starts to narrow. This condition is referred to as hyaline arteriosclerosis. This will result to restricted blood supply (ischemia) producing interstitial fibrosis, tubular atrophy, glomerular alterations and periglomerular fibrosis. The nephrons would then become tightened and shrink in size becomes of ischemia.
17236	There are several causative factors for Nephrotic Syndrome. It may be the result of a disease limited to the kidney, which is known as primary nephrotic syndrome. Secondary nephritic syndrome is a condition that affects the kidney and other body parts.
17237	Nerve cancer is caused by a cancerous tumor growing in the nerve cells of the brain. Most forms of nerve cancer are mostly invasive.
17238	The cause of a nervous breakdown, or mental illnesses in general, is not clear. However, some factors may play a role, including: drug and alcohol use; emotional and psychological stress; underlying medical conditions; and genetics.
17239	Paraneoplastic syndrome of nervous system is usually caused by the antibodies used to fight cancer and the white blood cells or the T-cells that instead of fighting the cancer cells only, the said antibodies also destroys normal cells in the nervous system and the brain. It is said to be caused also by hormones and chemicals produced by the tumor through its secretion.
17240	Neural tube defects may result from exposure to a teratogen. It may also be a part of a multiple malformation syndrome. Neural tube defects that are not caused by teratogen exposure or associated with any malformation are assumed to be caused by a combination of environmental and genetic factors. Lack of folate (folic acid) in a pregnant mother's diet is a contributing factor in the occurrence of many neural tube defects according to several research studies.
17241	Neuralgia occurs as a consequence of irritation or nerve damage due to a number of possible causes, including: infections, inflammation, systemic disease, compression, or physical irritation of a nerve. Some common triggers of neuralgia include: eye strain, tooth decay, noise infections, poor diet, or an infection caused by the herpes zoster virus called shingles.
17242	Postherpetic neuralgia is said to be caused by the damaged that occurs during the outbreak of the shingles or the chicken pox.
17243	Neuraminidase deficiency is caused by inadequate amount of the enzyme neuraminidase.
17244	Neurasthenia may arise as a delayed reaction to a virus or after mononucleosis infection, which is a viral disease transmitted in saliva.
17245	Neuritis may be triggered by a number of underlying conditions such as: herpes simplex; shingles; Guillain-Barre syndrome; diphtheria; and diabetes. Constant exposure to toxins due to unhealthy living habits and poor nutrition is also a major risk factor. In addition, heavy pressure or injury on a nerve trunk - such as in chemical, physical, or radiation injury - can also trigger neuritis.
17246	Neuroacanthocytosis is caused by degeneration of the basal ganglia and loss of neurons in the brain and spinal cord. The basal ganglia are the part of the brain responsible for controlling movement.
17247	The cause of Neuroblastoma is still not yet known; thought medical experts believed that it is an accidental cell growth during normal adrenal gland development.
17248	Neurocysticercosis is caused by the larval form (cysticercus) of Taenia solium, a pork tapeworm. Pigs serve as the intermediate hosts, while humans are the definitive hosts of this parasitic organism. The larvae can be acquired by ingestion of Taenia solium ova, which thrive on the feces of infected humans. The disease is more prevalent in developing countries where sanitation is poor.
17249	The cause of Neurodermatitis is not yet known though it is linked to the rubbing the skin or irritating it through the use of tight clothes or even because of a bug bite where the affected area is itchy and continue to itch as the person scratch it.
17250	The cause of Neuroendocrime Carcinoma of the skin or Merkel Cell Carcinomas is not yet known though it is linked to the merkel cells which are located at the epidermis or the outermost layer of the skin. Another theory is that it may be caused by skin stem cells which becomes cancerous. Genetic abnormalities may also be the caused of the condition.
17253	Neurofibroma is caused by neurofibromatosis.
17254	Neurofibromatosis is caused by the mutation in the neurofibromin gene. It is an autosomal dominant disorder of chromosome 17.
17255	Neurofibromatosis type 2 is an autosomal dominant inherited disorder. It is caused by mutations of the Merlin gene in chromosome 22.
17256	There are different causes of Neurogenic bladder disorder. Disorders that affects the neurologic response such as diabetes, acute infection, accident that affects the brain and spinal cord, genetic nerve problems and heavy metal poisoning.
17257	There are different causes of Neurogenic bladder disorder. Disorders that affects the neurologic response such as diabetes, acute infection, accident that affects the brain and spinal cord, genetic nerve problems and heavy metal poisoning.
17258	The fundamental causative factor for Neuroleptic malignant syndrome is antipsychotic drug and all other types of neuroleptic medications; the higher the dosage the more likely to suffer from this neurological disorder.
17259	The exact cause of neuroma remains unknown.
17260	The exact cause of Plantar Neuroma is not yet known though it may be said to be a response to irritation and injury to the digital nerves leading to the toes. Such may be irritation may be caused by wearing high-heeled shoes and too much jogging and trauma in the feet.
17261	Neuropathic pain is caused by nerve fibers that are dysfunctional, damaged, or injured. These damaged nerve fibers ultimately send wrong signals to pain centers. The result is a change in nerve function both at the location of the injury and the areas surrounding it. Some factors that can lead to neuropathic pain include: alcoholism; amputation; leg, leg, and hip problems; chemotherapy; diabetes; facial nerve problems; HIV infection or AIDS; multiple sclerosis; shingles; or injury from a recent spine surgery.
17262	Peripheral neuropathy can be caused by traumatic injuries, certain infections, exposure to toxins, and metabolic problems. One of the leading causes of neuropathy is diabetes.
17263	The most common causes of neurosis are emotional stress and physical stress. More specific causes depend on the particular type of neurosis.
17264	Neurotoxic shellfish poisoning is caused by eating or ingesting toxins produced in Gymnodinium breve, an organism commonly associated with red tides. They occasionally proliferate in clams, oysters, mussels, and other shellfish found in the Mexican Gulf and the Atlantic coast of southern USA.
17265	The primary factor that causes Neurotoxicity syndromes is exposure to man-made or natural neurotoxic substances including: * Substances used in chemotherapy, radiation therapy, organ transplant, and drug therapies * Heavy metals like lead and mercury * Specific foods and food additives * Pesticides * Industrial cleaning solvents * Cosmetics * Other natural products.
17266	Causes of neutropenia from disease can be categorized as resulting from decreased production of white blood cells, destruction of white blood cells after they are produced, or pooling of white blood cells (accumulation of the white blood cells out of the circulation).
17267	Nevi are said to be caused by an uneven distribution of melanin whereby melanocytes group together and form moles.
17268	Current advancements in the study of NBCCS show that this condition is possibly caused by mutations in the PTCH (Patched) gene which can be found in chromosome arm 9q. This condition is usually inherited by a child from his parent.
17269	A nevus or mole develops when melanocyte cells that transport melanin, a natural pigment responsible for skin color, fail to distribute melanin evenly to the skin layers and instead grow in clusters. The clustered pigmented area often gives rise to a mole.
17271	The major cause of Nezelof's syndrome is underdevelopment of the thymus at birth. It is congenital by nature.
17272	Niacin overdose results when excessive amounts of niacin are ingested. Niacin is commonly found in pork, beef, apricots, dates, green leafy vegetables, and vitamin B rich supplements and medications. Niacin overdose is unlikely if taken only in prescription amounts. In recommended doses, niacin can be effective in treating high high cholesterol, high blood fats, and niacin deficiency.
17273	The disease is caused by the bacterium Chlamydia trichomasis; it is sexually transmitted.
17274	It is still largely unknown why there are some people who develop sensitivity to nickel. Like any other form of allergy, it is caused by a malfunction of the body's immune system that causes it to react and release histamine to protect the body from an allergen , in this cases, the nickel.
17275	Nicotine Dependence is caused by an addictive chemical which is known as the nicotine that is commonly found in tobacco and cigarettes. It usually increase the release of the brain of a chemical named dopamine which makes a person feels good thereby making him want to smoke more .
17276	Niemann-Pick C1 Disease is inherited. It is classified as an autosomal recessive disorder.
17277	Niemann-Pick C2 Disease is inherited. It is classified as an autosomal recessive disorder.
17278	Niemann-Pick Disease is inherited. It is classified as an autosomal recessive disorder.
17279	Niemann-Pick Disease Type C is inherited. It is classified as an autosomal recessive disorder.
17280	Night blindness may be caused by a number of medical conditions, including: retinitis pigmentosa; vitamin A malabsorption and deficiency; celiac disease; cystic fibrosis; cirrhosis of the liver; bile duct obstruction; cataracts; diabetes; macular degeneration; severe short-sightedness; and congenital night vision disorder, among others.
17281	Night sweats can be caused by anxiety, chronic stress, menopause, alcohol and substance abuse, illnesses such as GERD and diabetes, and as well as certain medications.
17282	The normal sleep cycle involves distinct stages, from light drowsiness to deep sleep. During rapid eye movement (REM) sleep, the eyes move quickly and vivid dreaming is very common. Each night there are many cycles of non-REM and REM sleep. Night terror (sleep terrors) happens during stage 3 and stage 4 sleep (deep sleep). The cause is still unknown but night terrors are often triggered by fever, lack of sleep, or periods of emotional tension, stress, or conflict.
17283	Nijmegen Breakage Syndrome is primarily caused by a mutation in the NBS1 gene. Chromosomal instability is a major clinical finding.
17284	Nil disease is caused by food and drug allergies, hematological malignancies as well as other ongoing system diseases.
17285	The organisms that cause this condition are usually found in the soil. They sometimes cause sporadic disease among people and animals from different parts of the world. Oftentimes transmission is via inhalation of organisms suspended in dust. Direct transmission through open wounds is uncommon. In general, a certain degree of immune suppression is a requirement of nocardial infection.
17286	Nocturia can be easily attributed to drinking too much liquid before going to bed. However, it more likely results as a symptom of a more serious disorder, such as: diabetes mellitus; congestive heart failure; diuretic use; cystitis; obstructive sleep apnea; benign prostatic hyperplasia; urinary incontinence; diabetes insipidus; hypercalcemic nephropathy; prostatic cancer; acute pyelonephritis; and chronic renal failure.
17287	Developmental delay causes most bedwetting, frequently associated with a family history of the condition. Only small percentages (5% to 10%) of bedwetting cases are caused by specific medical situations.
17288	The cause of Thyroid Nodules is not yet known.
17289	Recent studies proves that exposure to harmful noise can trigger molecular formation inside the ear which can damage or kill hair cells. Noise Induced Deafness may be caused by a single exposure to an intense sound on impulse. This could be in the form of an explosion and other harmful sounds. Another cause may be continuous exposure to loud sounds for a prolonged period of time. This can also cause tinnitus.
17290	Noma is usually caused by bacteria. The bacteria responsible for the development of this condition are known as fusospirochetal organisms. Majority of the children afflicted with this condition had other types of illnesses such as scarlet fever, measles, tuberculosis, immunodeficiency and cancer. Although the exact cause is unknown, malnutrition plays a major factor. Noma is not a communicable disease.
17292	Genetics play an important role in the development of non-ketotic hyperglycinemia. Mutations in the AMT and GLDC genes are responsible for glycine encephalopathy. 80% of the cases occur as a result of mutations in the GLDC gene. AMT mutations account for 10% to 15% of all reported cases. However, a small percentage of affected individuals have unknown causes.
17293	Major causes of lung cancer include carcinogens similar to those found in tobacco smoke, ionizing radiation and viral infection.
17294	Non-specific urethritis is caused by non-specific causes but are closely associated with a number of sexually transmitted diseases, non-infectious urethral inflammation, and urethritis.
17295	The cause of the Nonalcoholic Fatty Liver Disease is not yet known but it is linked to the metabolic syndrome which is usually manifest through obesity, hypertension and resistance to insulin.
17296	The particular underlying cause of NASH is still not known though several factors are said to contribute to the development of NASH which are: Middle-aged individuals are often affected Being Overweight or Obesity Insulin resistance Toxic inflammatory proteins which is releases by fat cells Oxidative stress inside liver cells
17297	Nonallergic rhinitis is said to be caused by dilating blood vessels which fills the nasal lining with blood and fluid. It is also said to be caused by the nasal lining's inflammation or by a viral infection, irritants found in the environment such as smog and secondhand smokes, changes in the weather and even hormonal changes.
17298	Nonischemic Priapism is said to be caused by the malfunctioning of the blood vessels and nerves where the blood is usually stuck and cannot subside or drain causing a longer but painful erection. Other causes includes misuse of certain drugs such as viagra which is used to cure erectile dysfunction; trauma, blood clotting and inflammation of the urethra.
17299	At present the cause of Nontropical Sprue or Celiac Disease is not yet known but it is said to be an inherited disease.
17300	The exact cause of Nonulcer Stomach Pain is not yet known but it is said to be caused by viral infections.
17301	From its pattern of recurrence, Noonan syndrome had been suggested to be an autosomal dominant genetic defect with variable expression. An NS patient has as much as 50% chance of transmitting it to his child. Some manifestations of NS may be subtle enough to be recognized. NS may sometimes present as heterogeneous with more than a single similar condition with different causes and some are not inherited.
17302	NPH is caused by the increase of fluids produced in the brain. The cause for the increased production of cranial fluids is due to the impairment of arachnoid granulations that produce the brain fluids.
17303	It is said to be caused by the norovirus which is a contagious virus which easily transmitted through body fluids.
17304	Norrie Disease is genetically inherited. It is caused by gene mutations, which affect most males while most females are genetic carriers.
17305	Nose foreign body is typically caused by children who place food, toys, or other objects into their nostrils. Indeed, the vast majority of cases are those that result from voluntarily placing an object into the nasal cavity for whatever reason. In some cases, however, the nose foreign body may be caused by a force or trauma that accidentally shoves or pushes an object into the nose.
17306	Rhinitis can be caused by allergic reactions, irritation from pollutants, as well as the common cold. It can also be a side effect of treatments and use of certain substances.
17307	Most cases of nosebleed do not have an ascertainable cause. In general, nosebleeds may be triggered by injury or trauma, whether mild or severe, to the outside of the nose. For example, a blow to the face, habitual nose picking, or repeated irritation from a cold may trigger a nosebleed. Less commonly, nosebleeds may be caused by an underlying disorder, such as an inability of the blood to clot and a number of other bleeding disorders.
17308	The exact causes of nummular eczema are unknown. The irritation felt in these sores can be felt when exposed to changing weather, rough clothing and certain medications.
17310	Nyctophobia is a phase in a child's development. However, the fear may increase due to an individual's imagined dangers concealed in the dark. Nightmares may also contribute to the fear. Researches such as Sigmund Freud associate nyctophobia with separation anxiety.
17311	It is said to be cause by brain abnormalities, natural brain chemicals, abnormal productions of androgens and changes in the brain's circuitry.
17312	The cause for pathological nystagmus may be congenital, idiopathic, secondary to a pre-existing neurological disorder or may be induced temporarily by disorientation (such as on roller coaster rides) or certain drugs (alcohol and other central nervous system depressants and stimulants, such as lithium salts, phenytoin and ecstasy).
17313	Genetic and environmental factors are two cause of obesity.
17314	Obesity in children is caused by to factors: poor diet and not enough exercise, and underlying illnesses such as the Prader-Willi syndrome, Cushing's syndrome and hypothyroidism.
17315	Two groups of researchers disagree on the cause of OCD, one believes it is a psychological disorder, the other thinks OCD has a neurological origin. The latter is believed by a majority. Although the causes of the disorder is not yet ascertained, it is recently identified that OCD in some children is due to an autoimmune response to Group A streptococcal infection.
17316	Causes for the development of obstetric fistula are sexual abuse and rape, especially within conflict or post-conflict areas, other surgical trauma, gynecological cancers or other related radiotherapy treatment and, perhaps the most important, limited or no access to obstetrical care or emergency services.
17317	Obstipation is commonly caused by a lack of fibers in one's dietary intake as well as not drinking enough liquids.
17318	There are various factors that could cause the disorder such as decrease in muscle tone, a narrowed airway, or obesity, which results in increase of soft tissue around the airway. Some individuals with the disorder may have more than one of these factors.
17319	The condition is due to a deficiency in biliary copper excretion.
17320	Occipital neuralgia may be caused by a number of factors, including: trauma or a direct blow to the head; compression of the spinal column; nerve lesions; localized infections and inflammations; diabetes; gout; inflammation in the blood vessels; and, in some cases, local tumors.
17321	Occupational asthma is caused by irritants in the workplace. Depending on the industry in which the individual works, such irritants may be wood dust, persulfates, zinc, or seafood.
17322	Genetic, hormonal, environmental, or nutritional factors may cause OCD. A loose piece of bone or cartilage separates from the end of the bone, often causing blood loss and insufficient calcium supply. A stiff or unstable joint is caused by the loose piece, which may either stay in place or slide. A serious injury in the area causes an oversupply of calcium, which may also result to a stiff or unstable joint.
17323	Ochoa syndrome is an inherited disorder caused by gene mutations.
17324	The disorder is a result of incomplete metabolism of homogentisic acid, tyrosine and phenylalanine.
17325	The gene in most cases of ocular albinism is carried by mothers and occurs almost exclusively in males.
17326	Ocular herpes is caused by a highly infectious and recurrent viral infection caused by the herpes simplex virus, which can be transmitted via contact with an infected person or self contamination during an active herpes infection. The herpes simplex virus typically invades the body through the mouth or nose and spreads into the nerves, where they may remain inactive for years and never wake up from dormancy. An exact reason for an outbreak is not known; however, stress-related factors are believed to play a role, including: sunburn, fever, major dental or surgical procedures, and trauma.
17327	Ocular histoplasmosis syndrome is caused by spores of Histoplasma capsulatum (histo), which spread from the lungs to the eye, where they lodge in the choroids or the layer of blood vessels that supply nutrients and blood to the retina. When tiny abnormal blood vessels grow beneath the retina, they form a lesion called choroidal neovascularization (CNV) that, if untreated, can cause scar tissue and replace the normal retinal tissue in the macula of the retina. Vision distortions also occur when the abnormal blood vessels leak blood and fluid into the macula.
17328	The exact cause of Ocular Melanoma is not yet known but usually it is linked to the defects or the mutations of the DNA which causes genes to malfunction.
17330	The disease is caused by eating food contaminated by cats, undercooked meats, or drinking raw milk. The disease may also be transmitted transmission to a fetus from the mother who may have been infected with Toxoplasma for the first time during or just before pregnancy.
17331	Most people with the oculodentodigital syndrome inherit it from either their mothers or fathers. However, some results through mutation specifically those with older fathers. The condition varies from individuals because while some may show very mild symptoms, others manifest more obvious characteristics of the condition.
17332	Most people with the oculodentodigital syndrome inherit it from either their mothers or fathers. However, some results through mutation specifically those with older fathers. The condition varies from individuals because while some may show very mild symptoms, others manifest more obvious characteristics of the condition.
17333	It is caused by a gene mutation and mostly occur in males.
17334	Albinism is an inherited condition. Oculocutaneous albinism type 1 results from an altered tyrosinase gene.
17335	Albinism is an inherited condition. Oculocutaneous albinism type 2 results from a mutation of the P gene.
17336	Albinism is an inherited condition. Oculocutaneous albinism type 3 results from the mutation of tyrosinase-related protein-1 gene.
17337	Oculocutaneous albinism is an inherited condition.
17338	There is no known cause of the condition. However, certain mechanisms are suspected such as hyperthermia of the fetus, prenatal virus, fetal vascular compromise, septum of the uterus, decreased amniotic fluid, muscle and connective tissue developmental abnormalities.
17341	Odontophobia is usually caused by a person's traumatic experience with dentists and dental procedures. A person may also develop this fear upon hearing other people's traumatic experience with destists and dental procedures.
17343	Edemas are caused by the excess fluids that concentrate on one part of the affected organ. They can be due to underlying autoimmune disorders as well as previous diseases.
17345	The specific cause of Ohtahara syndrome has not been ascertained. However, the disease is closely associated with metabolic disorders or structural damage in the brain. Most cases of Ohtahara syndrome show severe atrophy in the two hemispheres of the brain. Less commonly, Ohtahara syndrome may be caused by an underlying syndrome. To date, no genetic link has been identified.
17346	Oikophobia is created by the unconscious mind as a protective mechanism due to a traumatic experience that has something to do with houses, home environrments, or being in a house. Fear may also be triggered by other events such as movies or seeing the trauma experienced by others.
17347	Certain smells are catalysts that bring out a person's fear associated with the smell. They associate the smells with unpleasant experiences which triggers their fear. Olfactophobia may occur in persons with chronic migraine that may be triggered by foul odors.
17348	To date, there is no known cause for oligodendroglioma.
17349	The specific cause of oligohydramnios is not known. In some cases, an underlying condition may be responsible. However, it is believed that a simple fluid leak or a small puncture of the amniotic sac is responsible for a majority of cases. In addition, the condition has been linked to factors that contribute to placenta abnormality and fetal urinary abnormality.
17350	There are several factors that can temporarily or permanently decrease the sperm count in the semen. Some factors that can temporarily lower sperm count are: high fever; high temperatures; certain drugs and poisons; certain hormonal conditions; certain severe illnesses; smoking; excessive alcohol consumption; and recreational drug use. Meanwhile, factors that can contribute to a permanent reduction of sperm count in men are: varicocele; varicose veins around the testes; inflammation of the testes; as well as exposure to radiation such as in radiotherapy.
17351	The genetic basis of the disease is still unknown.
17352	The disease is brought about by the calcification of the cartilage while the bones are under development during pregnancy. It can be caused by an ectopic accident. It is also associated with asymmetric dwarfism.
17353	Omenn syndrome is genetically inherited.
17354	Infection of the disease is due to contact with blood, feces, or the urine of a dead or sick rats. The disease may also spread through goat or sheep's milk because the virus can live in water.
17355	Onchocerciasis is caused by the parasite of an adult Black Fly transmitted through its bite. The parasite, called Onchocerca volvulus invades the skin or the eyes causing the infection.
17356	It is thought to arise from the intercalated cells of collecting ducts of the kidney.
17357	Ondine's curse is a congenital disorder but may also result due to severe brain or spinal trauma during which the patient may have had an automobile accident, a stroke, or a neurosurgery that has gone complicated.
17359	Most cases of onychogryphosis are caused by trauma and/or permanent pressure on the toe. Additionally, structural anomalies such as an abnormal foot position may play a role. In addition, onychogryphosis may be attributed to underlying conditions, such as: ichthyosis hystrix, psoriasis, and other epidermal dysplasias.
17360	The cause pathogens of onychomycosis include dermatophytes, Candida, and non-dermatophytic moulds. Dermatophytes are the fungi commonly responsible for onychomycosis in the temperate western countries; While, Candida and non-dermatophytic moulds are more frequently involved in the tropics and subtropics with a hot and humid climate.
17361	Oophoritis is commonly caused by an infection of the fallopian tube called salpingitis. Other possible causes are pelvic inflammatory diseases and/or other infections. Mumps, for instance, can cause oophoritis parotidea. Additionally, there are high risk factors involved, including: unprotected sexual intercourse; multiple sexual partners; high-risk sexual behavior; immunosuppression; recent instrumentation of genital tract; and gynecologic malignancy (particularly in postmenopausal women).
17362	To date, the exact cause of open-angle glaucoma is not known. Glaucoma, in general, develops as a result of increased intraocular pressure or high pressure building up within the eye.
17363	The specific cause of ophthalmitis is not completely known. However, most eye inflammation diseases are attributed to a number of factors and underlying conditions, including: enterococcus; ophthalmia neonatorum; intraocular foreign body; staphylococcus aureus; streptococcus viridans; and bacillus cereus, among others. In some cases, a rare type of inflammation called sympathetic ophthalmia may occur as a result of injury in one eye causing symptoms in the other healthy eye, with resulting vision impairment.
17364	The disease is caused by an autosomal recessive disorder.
17365	The unhealthy immune system of an individual may be caused by among others Malnutrition, Recurrent infections, Immunosuppressing agents for organ transplant recipients, Chemotherapy for cancer, AIDS or HIV-infection, Genetic predisposition, Skin damage, Antibiotic treatment, and Medical procedures.
17366	There's no clear cause underpinning oppositional defiant disorder. Contributing causes may include: The child's inherent temperament; The family's response to the child's style; A genetic component that when coupled with certain environmental conditions such as lack of supervision, poor quality child care or family instability increases the risk of ODD; A biochemical or neurological factor; The child's perception that he or she isn't getting enough of the parent's time and attention.
17367	Opththalmoplegia has no definite cause. However, the disease has been linked to certain underlying conditions, in particular: brain disorders such as strokes, encephalitis, brain tumor, and multiple sclerosis; as well as muscle disorders such as myasthenia gravis. Other possible underlying causes are: acute thiamine deficiency, botulism, ocular dystrophy, and acute inflammatory cranial polyneuropathy.
17368	The condition may be congenital or acquired. If it is congenital, it is often hereditary and appears in childhood or it may have been to a lack of oxygen during pregnancy, labor or in the early days of a child's life. If acquired, it may be due changes to the blood supply in the eye or optic nerve, may be secondary to inflammation or swelling within the optic nerve, may be a result of pressure against the optic nerve, or may be related to metabolic diseases, trauma, glaucoma, or toxicity. Other patients also obtain the condition due to a deficiency in vitamin B12 deficiency and Paget's disease of the bone.
17369	The condition is inherited from a parent.
17370	Individuals with a family history of Optic disc drusen may acquire this condition. However, a small percentage of the population is also clinically diagnosed with the condition.
17371	The condition is due to an inflammation of the optic nerve. The loss of vision is often caused by the swelling and destruction of the myelin sheath that covers the optic nerve. Direct axonal damage may destroy the nerve. Other causes may include viral-bacterial infections, autoimmune disorders, chloramphenicol and the inflammation of vessels that nourish the optic nerve. Some drugs such as ethambutol, an antitubercular drug, can also cause optic neuritis.
17372	Although the specific cause of oral and throat cancer is not known, there are certain risk factors involved. Smoking tobacco has been identified as the most common trigger of oral and throat cancer because it damages the oral cavity and upper throat. Other risk factors are: excessive consumption of alcohol, chronic denture irritation, prolonged UV light exposure, leukoplakia, erythroplakia, and human papillomavirus (HPV) infections.
17373	Oral cancers may originate in any of the tissues of the mouth, and may be of varied histologic types: teratoma, adenocarcinoma derived from a major or minor salivary gland, lymphoma from tonsillar or other lymphoid tissue, or melanoma from the pigment producing cells of the oral mucosa. Far and away the most common oral cancer is squamous cell carcinoma, originating in the tissues that line the mouth and lips.
17374	Oral candidiasis is an infection caused by a yeast fungus known as Candida albicans, alternatively known as Candida tropicalis or Candida glabrata. This fungus often invades the mucous membranes of the mouth. The infection may be introduced to the body through a variety of systemic conditions, drug therapies, or other conditions that cause changes in the oral cavity.
17375	Leukoplakia results from using tobacco products. It also forms due to chronic mouth irritation.
17376	The condition is not infectious or contagious. It may have been triggered by an allergic reaction todrugs or dental chemicals that may have touched the mouth's mucosal lining. But oftentimes, the cause of the condition cannot be determined.
17377	It is said to be caused by microorganisms such as virus and bacteria that thrive in the body. It is usually aggravated when the protective mechanisms of the body fails and the immune system is thereafter weaken.
17378	Orchitis is said to be caused by epididymitis which is the inflammation of the epididymis, and mumps.
17379	The disease is caused by the orf virus that belongs to the genus Parapoxvirus where in it also includes milker's nodule virus.
17379	Orf is caused by a parapox virus, which primarily infects sheep and goats, which can transmit the virus to humans through direct contact.
17380	Conditions associated with organic brain syndrome include Alzheimer's Disease, epilepsy Meningitis, or withdrawal from drugs or alcohol. Clinical depression, neuroses, and psychoses may simultaneously occur with the OBS.
17381	Ornithosis is caused by the Chlamydophila psittaci bacterium that is contracted from birds especially from parrots as well as pigeons, sparrows, ducks, hens, gulls.
17382	Oropharyngeal cancer is caused by damage to the DNA in the cells within the mouth and throat areas. Certain risk factors that can lead to oropharyngeal cancer include: tobacco use, excessive alcohol consumption, and exposure to ultraviolet light.
17383	Orotic aciduria in its hereditary form, may be caused by a deficiency in the enzyme UMPS, which is a bifunctional protein that includes the enzyme activities of orotate phosphoribosyltransferase, and orotidine 5'-phosphate decarboxylase. The condition may also result due a blockage of the urea cycle, specifically ornithine transcarbamylase deficiency.
17384	There has been no investigation into whether there may be a biological cause specific to orthorexia nervosa. Although, Donini et al link orthorexia to a food-centered manifestation of obsessive compulsive disorder, which is thought to have specific biological causes.
17385	Orthostatic Hypotension may be caused by dehydration which may result from excessive drinking and vomiting; adminstration of medicines especially those dieuretic pills; heart problems, nervous system disorder and diabetes.
17386	People with the disorder do not have the basic mechanisms to compensate their deficiency in the maintain blood pressure, cerebral blood flow, and consciousness when standing upright during long periods.
17387	Stress on the tendon attaching the muscle at the front of the thigh to the tibia causes Osgood-Schlatter disease. The condition results stress from the contraction of the quadriceps is transmitted through the patellar tendon to the underdeveloped tibial tubersity, during growth spurt in adolescence. The contraction may cause inflammation and avulsion fracture, resulting in bone growth in the tendon, which produces a visible lump.
17388	The disease is caused by excessive breakdown and formation of bone tissue resulting in bone pain, arthritis, deformities, and fractures. It is also be caused by a virus infection, which has been present for many years before symptoms appear. It may also be inherited when the disease appears in more than one family member.
17389	Osteoarthritis happens when the joint cartilage that is designed to cushion the ends of bones deteriorates over time. The surface of the cartilage gradually becomes rough and causes irritation. Eventually, when the cartilage wears down, the bone may be left rubbing on the bone. Many medical researchers suspect that this condition is brought about by a number of factors that includes overweight, the normal aging process, joint injury, hereditary, muscle weakness, and stress.
17390	Among the identified causes of OCD include environmental, nutritional and genetic factors.
17391	Doctors still remain unsure of the cause of osteochondritis dissecans. However, there have been a number of factors that are identified that may contribute to this disorder. Among the possible causes include repetitive force caused by stress or trauma, injuries such as tiny fractures, an impaired supply of blood and genetic predispositions.
17392	The exact cause osteochondroses remain unknown. Although several theories have been proposed, none have been fully proven. Some of the factors commonly associated with a number of osteochondroses are: stress and ischemia (low blood supply). Athletic kids may be affected when they overstress their still developing limbs with a repetitive motion, such as in a sport activity.
17393	While the exact cause of osteochondroma is still largely unknown, there is said to be a genetic link that indicates the disorder is inherited.
17394	Most of the cases of OI are primarily caused by the defect of the dominant genes. This means, there is a mutation copy of the gene and is passed on by the parent to the child. About 10-15 % of the cases are resulting from a recessive mutation. In such case, the child inherits the defective gene from both parents.
17395	It was believed that the primary cause of this medical condition is repeated trauma that increases the risk factors. This us because the repeated injury to a certain area may increase the osteroid tissue production that is needed to repair tissue damage. Genetics may also play a role in the development of this type of cancer as well as exposure to radiation therapy.
17397	No specific cause has been ascertained to explain why osteoid osteomas develop.
17398	There is no definite cause for osteoma.
17399	The primary cause of this disease is the lack of vitamin D in the body. This vitamin regulates the building process of the bone and the method at which the body handles phosphate and calcium. Other possible causes may include kidney and liver diseases.
17400	Osteomyelitis may develop due to the result of a bacterial infection in the bloodstream. This disease is sometimes called sepsis or bacteremia that rapidly spreads to the bone.
17401	The primary causes of osteonecrosis are actually divided into two different categories: the non-traumatic and post-traumatic osteonecrosis. This means, this condition may be brought about by a significant trauma to a certain area. It could also be due to certain complications of underlying diseases such as kidney problems, lupus, connective tissue problem, alcoholism and high levels of corticosteroids.
17402	osteopenia occurs more frequently in post-menopausal women as a result of the loss of estrogen. It may also be exacerbated by lifestyle factors such as lack of exercise, excess consumption of alcohol, smoking or prolonged use of glucocorticoid medications such as those prescribed for asthma.
17403	Osteopetrosis is believed to be a result of a certain genetic defect that primarily causes the body to produce a new bone. This growth develops more rapidly than the disintegration of the existing bone. This condition may lead to paralysis, nerve damage and blindness.
17404	Osteophytes usually occur as a result of a disease or condition - commonly with osteoarthritis, and in some cases with diffuse idiopathic skeletal hyperostosis (DISH), plantar fasciitis, spondylosis, and spinal stenosis. It may also be a normal part of aging.
17406	Abnormally thin and small body frame, family history of osteoporosis, cigarette smoking excessive alcohol consumption as well as the lack of exercise. Other underlying causes include poor nutrition as well as the abnormally low estrogen levels.
17407	A majority of osteosarcoma cases have no ascertainable cause or predisposing factors. In extremely rare cases, osteosarcoma may be attributed to a pre-existing bone disease or certain genetic abnormalities.
17408	Some of the primary causes of Osteosclerosis some underlying diseases such as prostrate cancer, myelofibrosis, Erdheim-Chester disease, sclerosteosis and hemangioma.
17409	Otitis is typically caused by a viral infection, such as a cold, for instance. The infection inflames the middle ear, consequently building up fluid behind the eardrum. Other possible factors that can contribute to otitis are: dysfunction or swelling within the eustachian tubes; swelling of the adenoids; and immature immune systems in children that make them susceptible to ear infections.
17410	Persistent moisture in the ear from swimming or bathing, exposure to an infectious organism from swimming in contaminated water, skin breakage caused by scratching or rubbing the ear with a foreign object are among the common causes of swimmer's ear.
17411	Streptococcus pneumoniae and nontypable Haemophilus influenzae are the most common bacterial causes of otitis media. Tubal dysfunction directs to the ineffective clearing of bacteria from the middle ear. During adolescents and young adults, the most common cause of ear infections during their childhoods was Haemophilus influenzae. The role of the anti-H.influenzae vaccine that children are regularly given in changing patterns of ear infections is not clear, as this vaccine is active only against strains of serotype b, which rarely cause otitis media.
17412	This medical condition is mainly brought about by a autosomal dominant disorder, which means the mutated gene is passed on from the parent to the child.
17413	The primary cause of this medical disorder is directly related to the mutations found in the COA11A2 gene that causes OSMED. This gene is among the several genes that primarily provides instruction in the production of XI collagen.
17414	An ovarian tumor is a result of a growth of abnormal cells in the ovary. The tumor may be benign or malignant. However, the primary cause of cancer is still largely unknown. Medical experts believe it has something to do with the tissue repair process of the body.
17415	Follicles produce the hormones estrogen and progesterone and release an egg when you ovulate. Sometimes a normal monthly follicle just keeps on growing. When that happens, it becomes functional cyst. This means it begins during the normal function of your menstrual cycle.
17417	Overactive Bladder may be one cause of Neurological disorders, such as Parkinson's disease or strokes. Some conditions believed to contribute to symptoms similar to those of overactive bladder include: Urinary tract infection, inflammation of tissues near the urinary tract, abnormalities in the bladder, obstruction in bladder outflow such as enlarged prostate, constipation, bladder stones, or previous operations to treat other forms of incontinence, diabetes, and excessive consumption of caffeine or alcohol and some medications.
17418	Overactive thyroid is caused by the overproduction of the thyroid gland of thyroxine, which in turn may be caused by Graves' disease, hyperfunctioning thyroid nodules (toxic adenoma, toxic multinodular goiter, Plummer's disease) or thyroiditis.
17419	The syndrome is caused by work stress, as well as routine work behavior.
17420	The pneumococcus is identified as the common the invading organism that causes the infection of the spleen. The meningococcus or influenza bacillus may also be the culprits.
17421	The cause of oxyphil cell carcinoma is still not known, although some researchers believe that the disease is associated with alterations in DNA, including some related to the aging process. Oxyphil cell carcinoma, like other thyroid cancers is linked to radiation exposure.
17422	PDP is often considered as familial in nature, which means it is an inherited condition believed to be autonomic dominant. PDP can also be brought about by other underlying medical conditions such as myelofibrosis, compressive neuropathy, psoriatric onychopathy and gynecomastia as well as congenital cardiac disease.
17423	Pachygyria is believed to be primarily caused by a breakdown in the fetal neuronal migration process that is a result of possible genetic or environmental influences. The
17424	Up to this day, the primary cause of Pacman's syndrome is still largely unknown. Some medical experts believe it is a genetic ailment passed on from parent to child through a mutation gene.
17425	The most common cause of peripheral artery disease is atherosclerosis or reduced blood flow because of fatty deposits build up in the artery walls.
17426	Medical experts have still not identified the underlying cause of Paget's disease of bone. However, studies have shown that it may be related to several genes.
17428	The main cause of this disease is still largely unknown and majority of the cases suggests that its genetic in nature, as it is often found in a number of members in the family.
17429	A perceived cause of this condition is the defect or damage occurring in the protective lining of the bladder.
17430	Some causes of painful intercourse are inflammation or infection in the genital area, inadequate lubrication, irritation, and certain illnesses like endometriosis. It may likewise come about due to psychological problems, stress and history of sexual abuse.
17432	There is no specific cause of palate cancer; however, smoking or excessive tobacco use has been identified as a major risk factor.
17433	There are many causes for paleness. This can be due to a sudden emotional reaction towards an incident, or manifestations of blood-related conditions such as anemia and/or leukemia.
17435	The cause of the disease is not yet known, but there are studies that indicated that it may have developed from premetiotic mitotic errors.
17436	This medical condition is believed to be cause by genetics.
17438	Palmoplantar hyperhidrosis is caused by sudden changes in one's emotions. Depression, anxiety and hyperactive feelings can induce excessive sweating.
17439	This medical condition is inherited that is passed down from parents to children. It is an autosomal dominant disorder that would usually occur in all generations of the family. The disease can also be a an autosomal recessive condition where both parents are contributors of the mutated gene.
17440	There are a number of factors that can trigger palpitation attacks, including: physical overexertion; emotional or physical stress; excessive alcohol consumption; excessive caffeine consumption; certain drugs; as well as underlying conditions such as hyperthyroidism or thyroid malfunction. Frequent palpitations may be cause for alarm, as it can indicate a more serious heart problem. Palpitations are also generally linked to anxiety and panic attacks.
17441	Most of the patients with this medical condition are congenital in nature but may not be automatically detected until several months from birth. This is believed to be casued by asphyxia, or the lack of oxygen during birth or other birth-related complications. Brain infections such as bacterial meningitis may also be a cause.
17442	This is caused by the deformation and malformation of the pancreas that is usually congential. Diagnosis of the disease usually happens during the first and second year on the baby's development. However, this disorder does not require any immediate treatment since there are usually no symptoms experience and often go undetected for years.
17443	Pancreatic cancer is primarily caused by the genetic mutation of the cells in the pancreas. Such mutations will cause the cells to develop uncontrollably and may continue living after the normal cells would die. This will then help in the development of tumors.
17444	In majority of the cases, the underlying cause of this medical condition remains unknown. There are some cysts that are often associated with some rare illnesses - like von Hippel-Lindau disease, a genetic disorder that affects the retina, brain, kidneys, adrenal glands and pancreas.
17446	The primary cause of Pancreatic Islet Cell Neoplasms is genetics that have been discovered through molecular genetics studies. Lab results suggested that pancreas have novel loci tumor suppressor genes. This type of disease is categorized as an autosomal dominant disorder. It is also believed that a certain medication called Leuprolide acetate, which is a synthetic form of nonapeptide analog other the naturally-occuring hormone called gonadotropin may also be a significant factor of this disease.
17447	In the normal pancreas, cells are called islet cells are known to produce hormones that can regulate a number of bodily functions, including the blood sugar level as well as the production of gastric acids. Tumors of the pancreas are associated with genetic disorder, putting members with a family history of pancreatic islet cell tumor are out at greater risk.
17448	The pancreas serves two distinct and vital functions. It produces digestive juices and enzymes that help break down proteins, carbohydrates and fats inside your small intestine. It also secretes the hormones insulin and glucagon, which regulates the path to your body, metabolizes sugar (glucose).
17449	Evidence has suggested that this pancreatic cancer is closely linked to the inhalation and/or the absorption of carcinogens that are excreted by the pancreas. The carcinogens identified include cigarettes, food additives, as well as industrial chemicals.
17450	Up until today, the cause of PANDAS is still largely unknown.. But it has been believed that this medical condition is triggered by a certain autoimmune disorder. In each bacterial infection, the human body produces certain antibodies that fight against these invading bacteria. However, in this case, the antibodies would set off a reaction that damages tissues and interacts with the brain, hence the OCD.
17451	Hypopituitarism is believed to be mainly triggered by a growth of tumor in the pituitary gland. As the tumors increase in size, it causes the compression and damage of the pituitary tissue, and thereby interferes with the hormone. Other underlying causes may include brain tumor, head injuries, radiation treatment, stroke, tuberculosis, infections of the brain and severe blood loss during birth.
17452	There are certain factors that are taken into consideration that trigger panic attacks. This mainly include genetic factors, stress, as well as changes I n the brain function.
17453	It's not known what causes panic attacks or panic disorder. However, stress and genetics may play a role in its occurrence.
17454	Panic Disorder has been found to run in families, and this may mean that inheritance plays a strong role in determining who will get it. It also has been found to exist as a co-morbid condition with many hereditary disorders, such as bipolar disorder, and alcoholism.
17455	Panniculitis is believed to be a result from a number of conditions, often related to a systemic disease. In cases where Panniculitis is not associated with any systemic condition, it is typically due to extreme cold or trauma.
17458	Papilledema is caused by a significant increase in the pressure of the fluid. This condition may have some underlying causes that could include any of the following: brain tumor, craniosynostosis, intracranial infection, abscess, head injury or hydrocephalus.
17459	There are a range of factors that can cause papilloedema, including: raised intracranial pressure (due to a brain tumor, pseudotumor cerebri, or intracerebral hemorrhage); respiratory failure; hypotony; accutane; and Guillan-Barre syndrome due to elevated protein levels. Approximately half of documented cases occurred in patients with brain tumor.
17460	Papillomas are more frequently caused by Human papillomavirus (HPV) infections. To date, there are over 60 strains of Human papilloma virus, which can be transmitted through sexual intercourse. Most HPV infections are linked to cancerous and precancerous conditions. While HPV is the most common, there are also a number of other conditions that have been known to cause papilloma, such as CPP or Choroid plexus papilloma.
17463	Scientific and medical studies have still not unraveled the underlying cause of Paragangliomas.
17464	Parainfluenza illnesses are caused by four serotypes of viruses belonging to the paramyxoviruses family: (1) HPIV-1; (2) HPIV-2; (3) HPIV-3; and (4) HPIV-4. Parainfluenza is commonly acquired via inhalation of contaminated droplet nuclei, or indirectly though contact with infected secretions. The virus has an incubation period of 2-6 days.
17465	Paralysis is commonly caused by damage to the brain or nervous system, particularly the spinal cord. Major factors that have been identified to contribute to paralysis include: trauma, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), stroke, Guillain-Barr? syndrome, poliomyelitis, multiple sclerosis, botulism, and spina bifida. In addition, poisons that disrupt nerve function (such as curare, for example) can also cause paralysis. There are still a wide range of factors or conditions that can give rise to paralysis; and in some cases, there may be no ascertainable cause at all.
17466	Paralytic ileus commonly develops as a consequence of some form of surgery, mostly abdominal surgery. It may also be caused by certain drugs, various injuries, and underlying diseases. Other conditions linked to paralytic ileus include: peritonitis; pancreatitis; and gastrointestinal bleeding, among others.
17467	Paralytic shellfish poisoning, and all shellfish poisoning syndromes in general, are attributed to bivalve mollusks, including clams, mussels, oysters, and scallops. These shellfish are filter feeders, thus accumulating toxins that are produced by microscopic algae such as diatoms and dinoflaggerlates as well as cyanobacteria. These poisonous toxins are mostly water-soluble and stable in acid and heat. PSP toxins are not inactivated by ordinary cooking methods, and affect those who come in contact with them via ingestion.
17468	PMC is primarily caused by the abnormality of the sodium channel in the muscle membrane. This disorder makes the patient extremely sensitive to cold, due to the exchanges of the potassium and sodium ions that typically occur during physical exertion.
17469	The exact causes of this cancer are unknown.
17470	A paraneoplastic syndrome typically occurs when the cancer victim produces the antibodies that would end up attacking the cancer cells and the healthy cells.
17471	The word "paraneoplastic" means that the illness is not caused directly by the carcinoma or by its metastases to other organs and tissues. Rather, paraneoplastic syndromes are caused by the immune system's reaction to the presence of the carcinoma or to substances produced by the cancerous mass. In the nervous system, these syndromes are commonly caused by cancer-fighting antibodies and T cells that the body activates to fight cancer. Instead of attacking only the cancer cells, the antibodies attack normal brain cells as well, thus resulting in a number of paraneoplastic syndromes.
17472	There are several factors that contribute to the development of this medical condition. Paraomphalocele is usually found in high-risk pregnancies that may be a result to a number of complications such as infections, smoking, maternal age and drug abuse among others. Recent studies have also shown that the change in paternity may also be an underlying cause of Paraomphalocele. This suggests that the immune system of the mother may also play a role as well as that of the father.
17473	Up until today, there is no certain study on the primary cause of paraphilia. However, experts believe it is greatly caused by sexual abuse or childhood trauma. People with this disorder often have difficulty developing sexual and personal relationships with other people. Typically, paraphilia starts during adolescence and progresses to adulthood with growing intensity.
17474	Paraphimosis is caused by the act of pulling the foreskin back behind the head of the penis for an extended period of time. In most cases, this is caused by well-meaning doctors or healthcare professionals when doing a penile examination or urethral instrumentation.
17475	There are a number of possible causes of paraplegia that can range from trauma or an acute spinal cord injury to tumors as well as multiple sclerosis. A rare cause of paraplegia is the peripheral nervous system that causes damages to the nerves that supply to the legs of the patient. Such form of damage is usually not symmetrical but when complications arise from polyneuropathy, paraplegia may be expected.
17476	As of this time, there is still no known cause of Parapsoriasis. However in the case of Pityriasis lichenoides et varioliformis acuta, there are many links from viruses, other illnesses, and vaccines, are made. At some point, it has been evidently associated to the PVB19 parvovirus.
17476	As of this time, there is still no known cause of Parapsoriasis. However in the case of Pityriasis lichenoides et varioliformis acuta, there are many links from viruses, other illnesses, and vaccines, are made. At some point, it has been evidently associated to the PVB19 parvovirus.
17477	The cause of Parsitophobia can be traced back to the patients history of unpleasant exerience with the parasite or it can be aroused by other stimulants like movies or belief or by people who always tell him that the parasite could harm her or him.
17478	There are three known strains of Salmonella paratyphi that cause Paratyphoid fever. These are S. paratyphi A, S. hirschfeldii, and S. schottmuelleri.
17479	The cause of Parcopresis is believed to be psychological in nature meaning it occurs when a person in mentally disturbed especially in such cases as removing bowels in other places they are not comfortable in.
17480	Transient paresthesia is believed to be a transient symptom of panic attacks and hyperventilation. Meanwhile, chronic paresthesia is attributed to a defect in the functioning of neurons, which may be caused by inflammation to the surrounding tissue. Some joint conditions like carpal tunnel syndrome and rheumatoid arthritis have been linked to paresthesia. In the elderly, paresthesia may be caused by poor circulation in the limbs, such as in cases of peripheral vascular disease, atherosclerosis, and the like. Another possible cause of paresthesia is neuropathy, or direct damage to the nerves themselves, which may result from trauma/injury or infections such as Lyme disease.
17481	There can be various cause of Parkinson's disease. It can be acquired hereditarily or by an accident involving severe injury in the head or head trauma. Other patients may have acquired it as a reaction to certain medications or even toxins.
17482	There are very many causes of parkinsonism and accurate diagnosis can even be complicated. The most common cause of Parkinsonism is the neurodegenerative condition or PD. However there is a wide-range of other causes which can lead the manifestation of similar symptoms which includes some non-PD neurological conditions, some toxins, and some diseases in the metabolism. In most cases though, Parkinsonism is caused as a side effect of some medications applied to the patient.
17483	In acute cases of paronychia, children are usually affected. It is caused by bacteria that enters the finger nails especially when it always has moisture. Viral paronychia however are also common in adults and is associated to genital herpes infection. Chronic paronychia cases is very common in adult women who works with their hands being kept moist like food handlers.
17484	The exact cause of parotid gland cancer is not known. However, there are several risk factors involved.
17485	Parotitis may develop as a consequence of: bacterial infections (such as Staphylococcus aureus); viral infections (such as mumps); blockage of the main parotid duct; a chronic autoimmune disease that causes inflammation (known as Sj?gren's syndrome); as well as other underlying illnesses that may cause swelling without pain and/or infection. Other factors that may contribute to parotitis include: parotid gland enlargement; elevated amylase levels; facial pain; some drugs that can cause transient swelling; and a wide range of others. In a majority of parotitis cases, however, the specific risk factors are unknown.
17486	Infections of a microorganism that triggers formation of the body's antibodies that reacts with red blood cell membrane are seen as a cause of the disease Paroxysmal cold hemoglobinuria. Viral organisms include measles,influenza, chickenpox, cytomegalovirus, mumps, adenovirus, and Epstein-Barr virus. Syphilis, Mycoplasma pneumoniae, and Haemophilus influenzae are some bacterial organisms causing Paroxysmal cold hemoglobinuria. It can be also that the disease is the body's reaction some vaccinations.
17487	Paroxysmal nocturnal hemoglobinuria are often caused by breaking of the red blood cells in the human bloodstream, usually by foreign organisms during infection.
17488	The cause of this disease has not quite been explained in details yet but it has something to do with tissue development in the face of the patient.
17489	Post- surgical atelectasis is the most usual cause of Partial lung collapse distinguished by immobilization and controlled breathing after surgery in the abdomen. People who smoke and are elderly are at the most in danger. Partial lung collapse also entails some obstruction of a bronchiole or bronchus that can be within the airway, through the wall or constricting from the outside. Poor surfactant is another cause for Partial lung collapse which scatters during inspiration, resulting to an augmented surface tension that has a tendency to disintegrate smaller alveoli.
17490	Fear of childbirth is often associated with the general fear of the pain during giving birth and is stimulated by previous experience of being in severe pain even in the administration of pain relievers. Other mothers may also have developed the fear over the loss of someone close to her during childbirth.
17491	This disorder has something to do with the psychological state of the person or sufferer. Although there had been no direct cause identified yet as of present time.
17492	Parvovirus infection is said to be caused by parvovirus B19.
17493	The bacteria that cause Pasteurellosis is the bacteria Pasteurella multocida.
17494	The cause of Patau syndrome is due to a non-disjunction of the chromosome 13 during meiosis producing an extra chromosome 13. In some cases, Patau syndrome is caused by robertsonian translocations. It can also be traced back to medical history of the parents since it is also a hereditary disorder.
17495	Patellar tendinitis is a common overuse injury. It shows when you place repeated stress on your patellar tendon. The stress results in tiny tears in the tendon that your body attempts to repair. But as the tears in the tendon become numerous, your body can not keep up, causing the inflammation in your tendon to worsen.
17496	The patella (kneecap) is normally pulled over the end of the femur in a straight line by the quadriceps (thigh) muscle. Patients with patellofemoral pain syndrome frequently have abnormal patellar "tracking" toward the lateral (outer) side of the femur.
17497	It is caused by staying at a stationary position for a long period of time. The exact causes for the pain is unknown, but studies associate the aching with the way the kneecap moves against the thigh bone.
17498	The cause of the disorder is traced back to the improper development of the fetus heart and is often seen only after birth when the ductus arteriosus of heart did not close after birth.
17499	This condition is a congenital defect which is believed to be hereditary and genetically associated.
17500	The cause of this condition may be psychological.
17501	The exact cause of this mental disorder is still unknown.
17503	PCC deficiency is caused by a defect in the PCCA and PCCB genes.
17504	Like all other food allergies, peanut allergy is triggered by the malfunction of the immune system. In this case, an allergic reaction may be caused by direct contact to peanut or food products with peanut, cross contact as in the processing and handling of food as well as through inhalation.
17505	Penust hypersensitivity has something to do with the inability of our body especially the digestive tract to process peanuts.
17506	Researchers are currently unsure as to the actual cause of pectus excavatum but hypothesize genetic defect. Approximately 37% of individuals with pectus excavatum have a first degree family member with the condition. Physiologically, increased pressure in utero, rickets and increased traction on the sternum because of abnormalities of the diaphragm have been postulated as specific mechanisms. Pectus excavatum is also a relatively common symptom of Marfan syndrome
17507	Pediatric T-cell leukemia was known and believed by many to be stimulated by a defect somewhere following the Notch signaling pathway.
17508	The lice infecting the head are spread through a direct contact with an infested person. The body lice on the otherhand are spread through a direct contact with the body of the infected person, or even through their clothing or their personal items of the person carrying lice. Pubic lice or "crabs" are usually spread through intimate contact like when making love with a person with the lice.
17509	Pediculosis Capitis is contracted when one comes into contact with either lice or their eggs which may come from other persons or contaminated items.
17510	The cause for the disease is not yet known but few studies have already been done to examine the root cause of the disease.
17511	Dietary deficiency of niacin or its amino acid precursor tryptophan results in pellagra. Dietary amino acid imbalances are also associated with the development of pellagra. Excessive leucine noted in diets that sorghum is a staple causes an amino acid imbalance, which interferes with tryptophan metabolism resulting in the development of pellagra.
17512	Pelvic sould be classified according to the affected organs or the extent of the infection as well as the organism that is causing it. In most cases, STD is usually the cause, however there are other causes that are also possible. It can be triggered by different causes including postabortal after a miscarriage or abortion, lymphatic, postpartum, intrauterine device or IUD, and a hematogenous spread.
17513	Pelvic lipomatosis was initially beleived to have resulted from a chronic infection in the lower urinary-tract. Pelvic lipomatosis has also been associated to obesity. Other also linked pelvic lipomatosis to a dysfunction of the endocrine glands.
17514	In some cases, Pemphigus condition was believed to be caused by medications like Penicillamine.
17515	Pemphigus Foliaceus is caused by the anti-bodies actions against the Desmoglein 1 protein.
17516	Pemphigus vulgaris is caused by the actions of our anti-bodies against Desmoglein 3.
17517	Pendred syndrome is believed to be caused by an abnormal mutations of the gene which is responsible for coding the pendrin protein. It is genetic in nature so it is most likely inherited recessively.
17518	Penicillin allergy, like all other types of allergies is caused by the malfunction of the immune system, triggering an allergic reaction as it considers penicillin as a possible threat to the body.
17519	Penile candidiasis is caused by a fungal infection of the Candida genus. This infection can affect males who have sexual contact with a female who has thrush. Diabetic men are more susceptible to penile candidiasis.
17520	Cancer of the penis is believed to be caused by a virus called human papillomavirus (HPV), particularly the HPV 16. The virus is also connected to the development of cervical cancer. A study showed that antibodies for the HPV 16 are found in over 60% of penis cancer patients, thus it is seen to play a role on the disease. Cancer of the penis can be sexually transmitted.
17521	The cause of Pentalogy of Cantrell is traced back to fetal malformation due to failed development associated to genetic failure or due to some medications administered during or prior to pregnancy.
17522	Pentosuria is believed to be caused by the patients deficiency in L-xylulose reductase which is responsible for reducing sugar level in the urine.
17523	Over 80 percent of peptic ulcers are caused by a spiral-shaped bacterium called "Helicobacter pylori" that typically lives in the stomach's acidic environment. However, only a small percent of such cases lead to serious risks. Peptic ulcers usually arise in the first part of the small intestine. The disease can be caused and/or worsened by various drugs, such as NSAIDs and Aspirin. Approximately 5 percent of all peptic ulcers are caused by a malignant tumor.
17524	The cause of Polyarteritis nodosa is unknown. Although one hypothesis beleives that it is caused by the antibodies actions against the Hepatitis B Virus.
17525	It is often hard to determine the cause of pericarditis, The friction between the inflamed sac and the outer layer of the heart causes the chest pains. Other causes include: systemic inflammatory disorders like lupus and rheumatoid arthritis, trauma including injuries to the heart or chest, other health disorders like kidney failure or cancer, or certain medications.
17526	Head trauma, involving a direct blow to the head, is the most common cause of PLF. It may also develop from rapid or profound changes in intracranial or atmospheric pressure. Ear surgery is another possible cause. PLF can also be inborn or caused by chronic ear infection.
17527	It is believed by most physicians that Perilymphatic fistula is complication caused by stapedectomy. Other than that, it is believed to be a miscommunication between the two organs of the ear hence the leakage.
17528	Causes of Perinatal infection can be one of the many like Chlamydia trachomatis which is the most common bacterial disease transmitted sexually. Another cause is cytomegalovirus, genital herpes, hepatitis B, human immunodeficiency virus, human papillomavirus, rubella, streptococcus, and syphilis.
17529	Periodic Fever, Aphthous Stomatitis, Pharyngitis and Adenitis is often times discussed with other syndromes of periodic fevers, however it is still unknown if the cause is genetic or because of an initial infection.
17530	The disease is caused by malfunctions in the ion channels of the skeletal muscle cell membranes. These ion channels, when not functioning properly, can cause the cell to depolarize and become immobile.
17531	Periodontitis is most commonly caused by the convergence of some bacteria that adheres and grew on the surface of the teeth along with an extensive aggressive response of the immune system against the bacteria.
17532	The cause of Peripartum cardiomyopathy is still unknown as of present time.
17533	The causes of Peripheral neuropathy are grouped as; genetic diseases, which includes Friedreich's ataxia and Charcot-Marie-Tooth syndrome; metabolic or endocrine includes diabetes mellitus, porphyria, chronic renal failure, liver failure, amyloidosis, and hypothyroidism; toxic causes including alcoholism, some drugs like vincristine, isoniazid and phenytoin, organic and heavy metals; inflammatory diseases like Guillain-Barr syndrome, leprosy, systemic lupus erythematosis, and Sjgren's syndrome; deficiencies in vitamin B12, A, E, and thiamin; and others causes like some malignant disease, radiation, virus like HIV, and chemotherapy.
17534	Smoking - tobacco use in any form is the single most important modifiable cause of PAD internationally. Diabetes Mellitus which increased risk of PAOD 2-4X by causing endothelial and smooth muscle cell dysfunction in peripheral arteries. Dyslipidemia is elevation of total cholesterol, LDL cholesterol, and triglyceride levels each have been correlated with accelerated PAOD.
17535	Just like any cancer, it is mainly caused by the genetic mutation of the cells, the accumulation of which may later form a tumor. The combination of genetics and environmental factors may be contributive to this development.
17536	The exact cause of peritoneum cancer is unknown at this time, although it has been closely linked to genetics.
17537	Infected peritonitis is caused by the perforation of the hollow viscus. Just like the perforation of distal oesophagus or of the stomach or even perforation of the intestine parts like appendicitis and diverticulitis. Other causes for the disease may include ingestion of some sharp objects like a sharp fish bone, a toothpick or some particles of glass shard. Trauma can also be the cause of perforation. In cases as perforation by a catheter or an endoscope, and in some cases anastomotic leakage.
17538	Periventricular leukomalacia is caused by a lack of blood flow or oxygen supply to the brain's periventricular that will result in the eventual death or loss of the brain tissues. The Periventricular area of the brain contains nerve fibers essential in carrying messages in the brain.
17539	The known most common cause of Pernicious in adults is vitamin B-12 deficiency. In temperate climes, the most common cause is autoimmune atrophic gastritis. Loss of the parietal cells may also be part of a widespread atrophic gastritis.
17540	The known causes of Perniosis are idiopathic or sometimes manifestations of some serious medical conditions that may be present to the patient that may need investigation.
17541	Peroneal muscular atrophy is a hereditary genetic disorder. It is inherited through the following ways: x-linked inheritance, autosomal recessive, and autosomal dominant.
17542	There are likely to be other possible causes, so ask your doctor about your symptoms. Whooping cough; Chronic cough; Smoker's cough; Asthma; Chronic bronchitis; Emphysema; COPD; Lung cancer.
17543	There is no known direct cause of Persistent sexual arousal syndrome as of the moment because it is so rare or because most cases are not often reported due to embarrasment. Although the use of some drugs like as trazodone can a side effect which is Persistent sexual arousal syndrome. In some cases recorded in history, the Persistent sexual arousal syndrome is due to a malformation of the pelvic arterial-venous forming arterial branches connecting to the penis or the clitoris.
17544	In most cases, the heart defect usually occurs spontaneously which is caused by some genetic disorders and also teratogens which are viruses, imbalances involving metabolism, and some agents may it be industrial or pharmacological. In some cases also, the chromosome 22q11 deletions has been associated as cause.
17545	Pertusis is caused by a bacterial infection of the Bordetella pertussis.
17546	The cause of pervasive disintegrative disorder is still not known. It is however, found to be associated with epilepsy, lipid storage diseases and tuberous sclerosis.
17548	These tiny dander particles on pets are the main irritants and can easily stick to the clothes, carpets and furnishings at home. It can also be carried through the air. Normally, these dander do not cause any really harm. However, for people with highly sensitized immune system, an allergic reaction is expected..
17549	There is no known cause for petit mal seizures. It is theorized however, that some are simply susceptible to this disease, because of genetic factors.
17550	Recently in 1998, it was found that a gene was associated directly with the mutation of the sundrome. This gene is known as STK11/LKB1 in the chromosome 19. This is beleived to be a possible gene that suppresses tumor which is inherited by an individual in an Autosomal Dominant patter. This means that any person with PJS has a possible 50% chance of passing the syndrome to their children.
17551	The cause of Peyronie disease is traced back to the abnormal development of fibrous plaques in the penis' soft tissues.
17552	The abnormal mutations in the genes named FGFR1 and FGFR2 are the main cause of Pfeiffer syndrome.
17553	This infection can be due to low immune system and exposure to the fungus.
17554	The definite cause of phantom pain is not known, but it is believed to originate in the brain, as a sort of a reaction in cases of amputation.
17555	The cause of such abnormality can be attributed to any experience, may it be personal or that of someone they knew or have seen, involving an unpleasant encounter with medicines. It may also have to do with social norms of the community the patient is living in.
17556	Pharyngitis is primarily caused by a virus, which may be in the form of the common cold virus, adenovirus, and influenza virus, among others. Pharyngitis may likewise be caused by bacterias which include Group A streptococcus that causes strep throat.
17557	In the past years, phenylketonuria is caused by a defective gene responsible for the enzyme phenylalanine hydroxylase that converts phenylalanine to tyrosine.
17557	Phenylketonuria is attributed to mutations or internal defects of a gene primarily needed to produce the enzyme to break down the amino acid phenylalanine.
17559	The disease is caused by a virus infection carried by the female mosquito two species of the Aedes family. It can be transmitted through mosquito bites.
17560	The cause of phimosis is not clear. For infantile phimosis, it is believed to be physiological. The foreskin attached to the epithelium of the glans penis cannot be easily retracted. It is also believed that preputial stenosis or narrowness prevents the foreskin from retracting. Acquired pathological phimosis can be caused by chronic balanitis xerotica obliterans (BXO) a skin condition that produces an inelastic tissue to form near the tip of the prepuce, thus preventing retraction.
17561	Phlebitis is mainly caused by blood clots formed due to prolonged inactivity. Some other diseases such as cancer and paralysis, as well as, estrogen intake may also cause phlebitis.
17562	Despite the various factors attributed to may have cause phocomelia, the most common cause is the use of thalidomide drugs during pregnancy and also genetic inheritance.
17563	The probable cause is a congenital malfunction in nerve signals in the trigeminal nerve nuclei. The fifth cranial nerve, called the trigeminal nerve, is the one responsible for sneezes. Research suggests that people who had been association between this nerve and the nerve that transmits visual impulses to the brain.
17564	The nature of cyclic images triggers PSE. Common stimuli are flashing lights and rapidly changing images, such as those of emergency vehicles, movies, TV and clubs, stationary or moving stripes or squares. These images usually shifts from dark to bright ones, or vice versa. Patients may be susceptible to certain colors, while the spacing of the images differ from one individual to another. The sensitivity be heightened by sleep deprivation, alcohol consumption and illness.
17565	Cause is unknown but exposure to UV light produces a clearly defined disease entity. These include: Polymorphic light eruption; Actinic prurigo; Solar urticaria; Chronic actinic dermatitis; Hydroa vacciniforme; Pseudoporphyria
17566	The causes of the disease is still unknown. Whatever little research done on the subject seems to point out that most of the patients are more likely to suffer from biochemical deficiency, oftentimes iron deficiency.
17567	What causes the disease is still not known to science. It is not genetic, nor is it caused by environmental factors.
17567	The cause of the illness can be both genetic and environmental.
17569	The exact cause for the disorder remains unknown.
17570	Piebaldism arises when there is a lack of melanocytes in the hair follicles and affected skin. The problem is caused when mutations of the KIT proto-oncogene occur. The mutation's site affects the severity of the disease. As an autosomal dominant genetic disorder, piebaldism manifests in half of the patient's children.
17571	The exact causes of the disorder are unknown, but some studies claim that during pregnancy, the mandible becomes stuck rather than developing in shape as the fetus matures. The other facial bones become compressed and stagnate in development as well, leading to such malformations once the fetus is born.
17572	What triggers or causes the disease remains unknown to physicians. The disease is also not genetic, and appears to affect anyone of any age.
17573	Cause of pilar cysts is believed to by inheritance. It runs in the family of the patient.
17574	The cause of piles is the increased pressure in the veins in the rectum on account of irregular bowel movement (constipation and diarrhea), pregnancy and childbirth, and obesity, among others.
17576	The disease is an acquired condition and most doctors believe that it results from the growth of ingrown hairs. Trauma worsens the disorder.
17577	The causes of the appearance of pimples are the skin's overproduction of oil, irritation of the hair follicles on the skin due to irregular shedding of dead skin cells, and the buildup of bacteria on the skin.
17578	A pinched nerve come about when, because of osteoarthritis, poor posture, injury, obesity, or stress, more pressure than necessary, is applied by surrounding tissues to a nerve.
17579	There are 12 known and recorded symptoms of pinealoma, and these are: hydrocephalus, gait disturbance, double vision, blurred vision, eye pain, premature puberty,insomnia, altered sleeping patterns, hearing impairment, upward gaze paralysis, headache, and vomiting.
17580	The disease is transmitted through skin contact usually between children in poor living conditions.
17581	Pinworm infection results from accidentally ingesting pinworm eggs from contaminated food, drink or hands.
17582	Peroxisomal defect causes Pipecolic acidemia.
17583	Pituitary cancer begins as a tumor that grows in the pituitary glands. Although most pituitary tumors are generally benign, some become cancerous, and thus a pituitary cancer is born. In addition, the following conditions play a role in pituitary cancer development: growth hormone secreting pituitary hormone; Prolactin secreting pituitary hormone; and Cushing's disease.
17584	Among the causes of pituitary insufficiency are brain tumor, head injuries, hypophysitis, meningitis, stroke, infiltrative diseases, and genetic mutations resulting in the impairment of pituitary hormone production.
17585	The cause of pituitary tumors is still not known. It is however, believed to be linked to the presence of other diseases.
17586	The real cause of Pityriasis Alba is still unknown. But physicians also suggest other conditions that trigger the patches like heat, humidity, detergents that are heavily scented, abrasive clothing, smoke, and stress.
17588	The cause of PLEVA is unknown. However, viruses, vaccines, and other illnesses are suspected to cause the disease, but no conclusion has been arrived at. Some evidence associate the disease with the PVB19 parvovirus.
17589	Pityriasis rosea is similar to infectious exanthems in that it occurs in clusters among contacts, has a seasonal predilection to spring and autumn, and has a low rate of recurrence (3%).
17590	The cause of Pityriasis rubra pilarisis is not known. Dermatologists have determined an acquired form, in which patient usually a spontaneous or gradual remission of symptoms. An inherited form was also determined, which starts during childhood with persistent long-term symptoms into adulthood.
17591	The cause of pytiriasis versicolor is the overgrowth of fungus on the skin. The growth of fungus, in turn, may be caused by excessive sweating, hormonal changes, oily skin, humid weather, and immunosuppression.
17592	Placenta previa occurs when the placenta positions itself in the lower part of the uterus and then grows covering the cervix. Placenta previa may be attributed to large placenta, scars in the endometrium, and an abnormally shaped uterus.
17593	Placental abruption may reoccur in women who had experience abruption in their previous pregnancies. Women younger than 20 years old or older than 35 years old are at risk to have placental abruption. Other factors that may cause the condition include maternal hypertension, maternal trauma, such as motor vehicle accidents, assaults, falls, or nosocomial, tobacco, alcohol, and cocaine use, short umbilical cord, prolonged rupture of membranes, or retroplacental fibromyoma.
17594	The most recent plague pandemic began in China in the late 1800s and, due to booming international trade and ships with high rat populations, spread quickly throughout Asia and other parts of the world. That outbreak caused more or less than 12 million deaths in India and China alone. According to scientists fleas transmitted the bacteria.
17595	Under normal circumstances, your plantar fascia acts like a shock-absorbing bowstring, supporting the arch in your foot. However, if tension on that bowstring becomes too great, it can create small tears in the fascia. Repetitive stretching and tearing may cause the fascia to become irritated or inflamed.
17596	You acquire plantar warts through direct contact with the human papillomavirus HPV, from a person suffering from the same.
17598	Regular exposure to asbestos leading to inhalation of loose, air-borne asbestos fiber that may lodge into the lung lining and cause inflammation, which can lead to cancerous tumors.
17599	Common causes of pleural effusion may include tuberculosis, autoimmune disease, and accidental infusion of fluids. Other causes include esophageal rupture or pancreatic disease, intraabdominal abscess, rheumatoid arthritis, asbestos pleural effusion, Meig's syndrome, and ovarian hyperstimulation syndrome. Pleural effusions may also result due to medical or surgical interventions.
17600	As with any cancer, it is mainly caused by the genetic mutation of the cells, the accumulation of which may later form a tumor. The combination of genetics and environmental factors may be contributive to this development.
17601	Pleurisy may be caused by diseases such as flu, pneumonia, tuberculosis, pulmonary embolism, and autoimmune conditions.
17602	Pleuritis may be result from various infectious and non-infectious causes.
17603	Pica syndrome may be either acute or chronic, and may be caused by a sudden injury like falling or an accident that cause the medial (inner) plica to become inflamed. Chonic plica problems can occur when medial plica is irritated by repeated actions like biking.
17604	Although genetic factors and nutritional deficiencies are suspected to have a role in the development of the disorder, the cause is still not known.
17606	The pneumocystis jirovecii fungus causes pneumocystis pneumonia, which usually people with weak immune systems, such as premature or severely malnourished children, the elderly, and especially persons with AIDS. Individuals who take immunosuppressant medications and those who underwent a bone marrow transplantation, may develop the disease.
17607	The pneumocystis jirovecii fungus causes pneumocystis pneumonia, which usually people with weak immune systems, such as premature or severely malnourished children, the elderly, and especially persons with AIDS. Individuals who take immunosuppressant medications and those who underwent a bone marrow transplantation, may develop the disease.
17608	Eosinophilic pneumonia may result due to allergic reactions of medicines taken by patients, or their exposure to the environment. The disease may be caused parasitic infections or in relation to the diagnosis of certain types of cancer diagnosed in cancer patients. Acute eosinophilic pneumonia is associated with smoking while the chronic type is not. However, most patients with chronic eosinophilic pneumonia are women, which may be associated with breast cancer.
17609	When inhaled, silica dust embeds in the alveolar sacs and ducts of the lungs causing white blood cells to release series of cytokines. This stimulates fibroblasts and resulting in fibrosis. Silicon-based radicals such as hydroxyl, hydrogen peroxide, and oxygen radicals may also be created by the silicon dust. These compounds damage other cells of the lungs. The most common form of the disease is the chronic type, which develops after a person's exposure to low levels of silica dust within a period of 20 years or more.
17610	Pneumothorax results when the lung's major airway has been blocked by a growing tumor, inhaled foreign object, or has been infected. The lung collapses when there is leakage of air between the lungs and chest wall. A chest injury, medical treatments, or lung disease may cause pneumothorax. There are many types of pneumothorax, each of which is defined by its cause.
17611	The cause of POEMS syndrome is not known. Research studies believe the involvement of an overgrowth of bone marrow cells produce chemicals damaging other parts of a person's body. The syndrome is not inherited or contagious.
17612	The disease is an autosomal recessive disorder and the mutations can be found on the gene's chromosome 8.
17613	This condition is believed to have been caused by a long exposure to the sun's heat.
17614	The cause of poison ivy rash is contact with an oily and sticky substance called urushiol, which comes from poison ivy, poison oak and poison sumac. A person may come in contact with the said substance by directly touching a portion of the toxic plant, by inadvertently rubbing the urushiol onto other areas of the skin, or by touching an item with urushiol.
17615	The condition does not have a known cause. The prevailing theory however, is that at about the 6th week of embryonic development, blood flow to the arteries under the collarbone was interrupted.
17616	Poliomyelitis is caused by infection with the poliovirus, which destroys the nervous system resulting in paralysis. Infection is usually through human contact or by eating contaminated food or drinking contaminated water. The virus is transmitted as long as it is in the saliva or feces.
17617	Pollens from trees, grasses and weeds during the spring, summer and sometimes, the fall seasons. The effect of allergens vary from person to person. Allergy may be a hereditary condition.
17618	The cause of polyarteritis nodosa is unknown. However, the disease occurs when arteries are attacked by certain immune cells usually affects adults and more common in individuals infected with hepatitis B.
17619	Auto-immune disorders such as Rheumatoid arthritis, Psoriatic arthritis, and Lupus erythematosus usually cause polyarthritis as well as infections such as Ross River Virus. Gout or pseudogout may also result in inflammatory polyarthritis, but only on rare cases. Another cause of polyarthritis is the calcium pyrophosphate dihydrate deposition disease.
17620	The causes of polychondritis are unknown.
17621	Polycystic kidney disease is caused by abnormal genes in family, which results in two types of the disease. The autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease is passed on to the child from one parent with the abnormal genes. The autosomal recessive polycystic kidney disease is passed on from both parents with the abnormal genes to their child. In rare cases, the disease is the result of a spontaneous gene mutation.
17622	Insulin resistance, diabetes, and obesity are strongly associated with with the syndrome, although the causes are not known.
17623	This characteristic overproduction of red blood cells may be caused by a primary process occurring in the bone marrow called the myeloproliferative syndrome, or a rare malignancy wherein it is a reaction to chronically low levels of oxygen. For secondary polycythemia, other causes may include: smoking, renal tumors, liver tumors, heart or lung diseases that result in hypoxia, and endocrine abnormalities including pheochromocytoma and adrenal adenoma with Cushing's syndrome, among others.
17624	DNA mutation causes polycythemia vera. The disorder may be acquired after birth. However, doctors and researchers do not know the reason for the mutation.
17625	The condition is genetically inherited.
17626	Many scientists theorize that the polyendocrine deficiency syndrome is inherited. This is mainly because it has been frequently observed that there may be more than one member in the family to have endocrine deficiencies.
17627	The cause of polymorphous light eruption is exposure to UV radiation. UV radiation is a wavelength of sunlight in a range mush short for the human eye to see. Commercial tanning lamps and tanning beds are also produce UV radiation.
17629	The cause of the disorder is unknown. However, it may be associated with an immune system problem that involves genetic and environmental factors. Age may also be a factor since the disorder usually develops people at 50 years old or older.
17630	At present, the cause of polymyositis has not been determined. Some patients are found to have indicators of heredity susceptibility; others may have developed the disease due to infection with a virus that is resistant to treatment.
17631	Polyneuritis may be caused by alcohol, beriberi, deficiency in Vitamin B12, metabolic diseases, diabetes, hypothyroidism, porphyria, infections, autoimmune disease, or cancer.
17632	The individual with the syndrome usually has a mutated gene in which he or she has more than one cell populations that have dissimilar genetic makeup.
17633	The condition is an inherited gene mutation passed on from parents.
17634	There are no known causes for the development of fundic gland polyps. However, hyperplastic polyps and adenomas, may be caused by gastritis, which is in turn, caused by H. pylori bacteria.
17635	The cause of uterine polyps is not known, however, it is theorized that hormones, particularly estrogen, may have a factor in its development.
17636	The disease is due to body's deficiency in acid maltase, which is an enzyme needed to break down glycogen -- a form of sugar stored in the body used for energy. The disease is genetically acquired from both parents having the defectivel gene.
17637	The cause of pompholyx is unknown. It is however, linked to atopic dermatitis, and other allergic conditions, such as allergic rhinitis.
17638	The bacteria that is responsible for the disease is the bacterium Legionella pneumophila. The bacteria reside in warm, damp surroundings. They also reside in lakes, rivers, hot springs and soil. Like other bacteria the legionella bacteria has the ability to reside in pipe interiors, faucets and shower heads.
17639	Pontiac fever is caused by a type of bacterium known as Legionella pneumophila. It is typically contracted by breathing mist that comes from a contaminated water source (e.g. whirlpool spas, showers, air conditioning cooler towers, etc.). Legionella pneumophila can not be transmitted from person to person contact.
17640	Poor color vision may be attributed to the following causes: diseases, such as glaucoma, diabetes, leukemia, or Alzheimer's disease; exposure to potent chemicals; and certain medications, like those for high blood pressure. Poor color vision may also be an inherited disorder or a natural part of aging.
17641	Overproduction of synovial fluid may result to popliteal cyst. This condition may also be caused by a knee injury, especially a cartilage tear.
17642	The syndrome is inherited due to a gene mutation (interferon regulatory factor 6). Some case of popliteal pterygium suggests new mutations due to advanced parental age.
17643	It is genetically inherited.
17644	Porencephaly is caused by cysts or cavities in a cerebral hemisphere, which is due to abnormal development or the remnants of destructive lesions. The latter often results from damage due to stroke or infection after birth. Abnormal development before birth is inherited but a less common cause of the disorder.
17645	Porphyria is an inherited conditions or can be triggered by drugs, chemicals, fasting, smoking, drinking alcohol, infections, emotional and physical stress, menstrual hormones, and exposure to the sun. Porphyria can be inherited from one parent with the abnormal gen or both parents who have the abnormal gene.
17646	In individuals with PCT, familial, have inherited mutations of the UROD gene which produces an enzyme critical to the production of heme. The capacity of the enzyme is reduced to half than normal for persons with PCT, familial. Sporadic PCT can be induced or aggravated by excessive alcohol abuse due to the oxidative damage caused to the liver cells which in turn inhibits the activity of the UROD gene. Exposure to chlorinate cyclic hydrocarbons can also lead to a decreae activity of the UROD gene.
17647	PCT, familial type, as the term familial suggests, is inheritted. Individuals suffering from this disorder have inherited mutations of the UROD gene which producces an enzyme critical to the production of heme. The capacity of the enzyme is reduced to half than normal for persons with PCT, familial.
17648	TYPE I PCT can be induced or aggravated by excessive alcohol abuse due to the oxidative damage caused to the liver cells which in turn inhibits the activity of the UROD gene. Exposure to chlorinate cyclic hydrocarbons can also lead to a decreae activity of the UROD gene.
17650	In developed nations, portal hypertension are often caused by cirrhosis of the liver. In other parts of the world, the condition is mainly caused by schistosomiasis.
17651	Portal vein thrombosis is caused by cirrhosis, pancreatitis, diverticulitis and cholangiocarcinoma.
17651	Portal vein thrombosis is caused by cirrhosis, pancreatitis, diverticulitis and cholangiocarcinoma.
17652	Exact causes of PPS is unknown but two theories persist. One theory proposes that the condition is due to neural fatigue from overworked neurons that has shouldered the burden left by the neurons that were killed during the initial infection. The other theory says the original vital infection has damaged portions of the lower brain which may include the thalamus and hypothalamus thus upsetting the hormones that control muscle metabolism.
17653	PTSD is caused by traumatic events which may include kidnapping, violent assault, being a hostage or prisoner of war, bad car accidents, experiencing a disaster or being diagnosed of a life-threatening condition. Among children, PTSD may be caused by sexual abuse and other similar experiences. Critical Incident Stress Management (CISM) which refers to early intervention after a traumatic incident greatly reduce the effects of the incidence.
17654	It is theorized that post-concussion syndrome is caused by structural damage to the brain or disruption of neurotransmitter systems, because of the impact that caused the concussion. It is also believed to be related to psychological factors.
17655	Can be caused by other disporders such as rhinitis, sinusitis or laryngopharyngeal acid reflex. It can also be caused by allergies, particularly during spring, summer and fall.
17656	There is no known cause for the post-polio syndrome. Most experts however, subscribe to the degenerating nerve cells theory as the cause of post-polio syndrome. The theory is explained in the following manner: to address the neuron shortage caused by the poliovirus, the remaining neurons sprout new fibers and enlarged the motor units, promoting recovery of the use of the muscles. Because of this however, added stress is placed on the nerve cell body to nourish the additional fibers. After some time, this stress may be more than the neuron can handle, leading to the gradual deterioration of the sprouted fibers and, eventually, the neuron itself.
17657	Different biochemical processes in the brain may cause PTE. This includes brain damage caused by free radicals and excitotocity.
17658	Like other post-traumatic stress disorders, the post-Vietnam syndrome is caused by a traumatic event, i.e. the Vietnam War. Soldiers who have lost friends, colleagues as well as those who saw bloodshed are more likely prone to experience this kind of depression.
17660	There are opthalmic disorders, that are not primarily inflammatory, that clinically present posterior uveitis. These are called masquerade syndromes. Among these disorders are: Anterior segment Intraocular foreign body, Juvenile xanthogranuloma, Leukemia, Malignant melanoma, retinoblastoma, Retinal detachment, Posterior segment, Lymphoma, Malignant melanoma, Multiple sclerosis, Reticulum cell sarcoma, Retinitis pigmentosa and Retinoblastoma.
17661	There is specific cause of postpartum depression recorded. However, various factors may cause depression among women who recently gave birth. These include hormonal imbalance, mental illness before pregnancy, history of postpartum depression in the family, miscarriage, emotional problems, physical changes to the woman's body and emotional changes after delivery.
17662	Blood vessels in the area where the placenta was attatched bleed freely and hemorrhage occurs. Other causes include: placental abruption (the early detachment of the placenta from the uterus), placenta previa (the placenta covers or is near the cervical opening), overdistended uterus (excessive enlargement of the uterus due to too much amniotic fluid or a large baby), multiple pregnancy, or pregnancy-induced hypertension.
17663	There's no known "single" cause for postpartum psychosis. Physical changes, emotional factors and lifestyle influences play a huge role in this condition.
17664	Postural hypotension is primarily caused by the pooling of blood in the lower extremities as result gravitational pull which lowers cardiac output and lower blood pressure in the arteries. A secondary factor though is necessary for postural hypotension to occur. These secondary factors may include hypovolemia (decreased amount of blood in the body), diseases, medications, or, very rarely, safety harnesses.
17665	Mild hypokalemia often shows no symptoms. High blood pressure is observed with some patients as a result of cardiac arythmia. In its moderate stage, hypokalemia can cause muscle cramps and weakness and even constipation. In its severe stage, hypokalemia may result to flaccid paralysis, tetany and hyporeflexia. Patients with hypokalemia can also experience respiratory depression as a result of severe impairment of skeletal muscle functions.
17666	The disorder is a result of the decreased levels of the amniotic fluid oligohydramnios, which helps form the kidneys. It can also be an effect of other underlying diseases such as multicystic kidney illnesses.
17668	PWS is a genetic disorder.
17669	There is still no clear explanation to the cause of presbycusis. However, medical experts believe genetic predisposition has a significant effects as well as constant exposure to noise trauma. This condition increases as the person ages.
17670	May be natural, a variation of early development. Can also be caused by a disease or abnormal exposure to hormones.
17671	Preeclampsia is said to be caused by a number of factors. One theory holds that a substance or substances from the placenta may cause endothelial dysfunction in the maternal blood vessels of the pregnant woman.
17672	Pregnancy toxemia /hypertension is said to be caused by a number of factors. One theory holds that a substance or substances from the placenta may cause endothelial dysfunction in the maternal blood vessels of the pregnant woman.
17673	Smoking, sun exposure, hypothyroidism, down syndrome, progeria are among the causes of premature aging.
17674	Autoimmune disorders and genetic disorders such as Turner syndrome and Fragile X syndrome may cause POF. Chemotherapy and radiation therapy for cancer patients may also cause ovarian failure. Other risk factors include having pelvic or ovarian surgery earlier in life. Many cases of POF though have indeterminable causes.
17675	The cause for the condition is uncertain. But it may be triggered by heart diseases. Body changes can also make cells in the ventricles electrically unstable.
17676	The exact cause is unknown; though changes in hormonal levels during menstruation are often linked to the disorder. A family history of premenstrual dysphoric disorder and certain stressful events in life can contribute to the development of the disorder.
17677	Specific causes of PMS are still unknown but there are several factors that are believed to cause PMS. Such factors are: Changes in hormones' cycle Chemical (serotonin) changes in the brain Low intake of vitamins and minerals
17678	Damage to the cochlea is one of the possible causes of presbycusis. Gradual accumulation of earwax that may cause blockage in the ear canal resulting to poor conduction of sound waves is also a cause of gradual hearing loss.
17679	The hardening of the lens in the eyes that develops with age, causes presbyopia. The lens has become inflexible causing close-up images appear out of focus.
17680	It is believed that this foundation is caused by vascular factor and neurological factors. This condition may be related with disorders like haematological disorders particularly sickle-cell disease and other conditions like thalassemia, leukaemia and Fabry's disease. Neurological disorders such as lesions and trauma in the spinal cord are also seen to cause this condition. It can also be caused by medication the most common are intra-cavernous injections that are used to treat erectile dysfunction.
17681	The condition occurs when some of the sweat ducts are blocked preventing perspiration from evaporating, causing the inflammation and rash. The cause of blocked sweat ducts is not specifically known, but some factors are considered to contribute to this condition such as immature sweat ducts, tropical climates, physical activity, certain fabrics, medications, bacteria, and other factors such as overheating.
17682	Primary alveolar hypoventilation is a disease of unknown origin.
17683	There are many possible causes for primary amenorrhea including the following: drastic weight reduction, extreme obesity, malnutrition, long-term diseases. Congenital genital abnormalities such as absence of vagina or uterus, imperforate hymen or cervical stenosis may also cause primary amenorrhea. Other medical conditions including hypoglycemia, cystic fibrosis, congenital heart disease, tumors, chromosomal abnormalities among others may also loss of menstrual periods.
17684	The exact cause is not yet known; however there are evidences showing a link between auto immune disorders and the destruction of bile ducts in the liver.
17685	Primary ciliary dyskinesia is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern of inheritance.
17686	Primary hyperoxaluria is often caused by mutations in the alanine-glyoxylate aminotransferase and glyoxylate reductase/hydroxypyruvate reductase.
17687	In most cases, primary hyperparathyroidism is caused by an erratic, single parathyroid adenoma (tumor) due to clonal mutation. Most cases of primary hyperparathyroidism is of unknown origin.
17688	The conditions are inherited from from one or both parents, which results from defective DNA, which lack or have defenses that may or may not correctcly work.
17689	Primary lateral sclerosis is caused by degeneration and eventually death of the upper motor neurons present in the brain and spinal cord, which causes weakness of voluntary muscles.
17690	The condition is cuased by few or unresponsive follicles in the ovaries or the improper response of the follicles. The depletion of follicle results from chromosomal defects or toxins. Follicles with improper responses are caused by autoimmune diseases that may be due to virus exposure.
17691	DNA mutation causes polycythemia vera. The disorder may be acquired after birth. However, doctors and researchers do not know the reason for the mutation.
17692	There is still no established idea on what really causes the syndrome however damage to the language center of the brain is linked to the development of primary progressive aphasia.
17693	Primary pulmonary hypertension is a disease of unknown cause; however, research are looking into possible factors that may contribute to the development of the disease including genetic inclination, disease of the immune system, and exposure to certain chemicals or drugs.
17694	The exact cause of primary sclerosing cholangitis is unknown.
17696	Prinzmetal's variant angina is caused by narrowing of the coronary arteries due to contraction of the smooth muscle tissue in the walls of the blood vessels; however what really caused the contraction is still not yet known.
17697	Causes of the condition include premature birth, autism and other developmental disorders, learning disabilities and its resulting delinquency and substance abuse. The condition may also result due to stress-related disorders and brain injury. Autism and attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder are two of the main contributing agents of the disorder.
17698	Proconvertin deficiency, congenital is caused by lack of blood protein called Factor VII, an important clotting protein. The disorder can be inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern of inheritance.
17699	Proctalgia fagax is a disorder of muscles of the skeleton. The disease recurs and there is no known cure. Stress may also be considered a cause.
17700	Proctitis can be caused by sexually transmitted infections usually in individuals who engage in oral-anal or anal sexual intercourse. Gonorrhea, syphilis, anal warts, Chlamydia, and genital herpes are the sexually transmitted diseases that can possibly cause proctitis. Other bacterial infections that can cause proctitis include food-borne illnesses caused by campylobacter, Shigella, and salmonella bacteria. Individuals suffering from inflammatory bowel diseases such as ulcerative colitis and Crohn's disease are more susceptible to proctitis. Other factors that may damage the lining of the rectum which may lead to proctitis include chemicals, medications, and objects placed in the rectum causing trauma to the anal-rectal area; radiation therapy directed within the anal area and the use of antibiotic to treat another disease can possibly cause proctitis.
17701	Progeria is caused by a single gene mutation in the gene known as lamin A.
17703	Progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy is caused by the opportunistic infection of brain cells brought about by the JC virus.
17704	Progressive spinal muscular atrophy is an autosomal recessive condition caused by progressive deterioration of motor neurons in the spinal cord causing damage to nerve cells resulting to muscle atrophy.
17705	The exact cause of progressive Supranuclear palsy is not known; however, deterioration of cells in brain areas that are responsible in controlling movement is closely associated with the disorder.
17706	Prolactinoma is one type of tumor that develops in the pituitary gland. The cause of pituitary tumors are unknown. Other causes incude: certain medications like tranquilizers, anti-nausea and gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD) drugs, and hypertension medications; other pituitary tumors; hypothyroidism; pregnancy, breast-feeding and breast stimulation
17707	Pregnancy and childbirth commonly cause the condition due to stretched and weakend muscles and ligaments supporting and holding the vagina in place during labor and delivery. The condition may also occur when the the pelvic floor is strained because of obesity, chronic cough or bronchitis, repeatedly lifting weigths, and straining with bowel movements.
17708	Weakened and stretched supporting tissues lead to a prolapsed uterus, which may be caused by pregnancy and childbirth trauma particularly due to large babies or after labor and delivery difficulties. Other conditions that may contribute to the condition include muscle tone loss due to aging and reduced estrogen production after menopause. In rare cases, uterine prolapse is caused by a tumor in the pelvic cavity.
17709	Prolidase deficiency is a very rare autosomal recessive condition caused by mutations in the PEPD gene on chromosome 19p 13.2
17712	This condition often results from dementia, stroke and neurological disorder.
17713	The following have been suspected to develop prostate cancer. Racial or family predisposition Environmental elements exposure Co-existing sexually transmitted diseases Endogenous hormonal influence Imbalance in androgen and estrogen level High levels of dihydrotestosterone Mutations in the genes of cells High-frequency radiation It has also been implicated that eating fat-containing animal products contribute in developing this disease.
17714	Prostate cancer, familial is heredity or family history.
17715	A rapid production of cells in the central portion of the prostrate gland results in prostate gland enlargement. However, the cause of the condition is not specifically known. Doctors think that the growth is stimulated by changes in the ratio of male and female hormone levels due to age. Others also think that aging results in the prostate gland's sensitivity and responsiveness to normal levels of male hormone making it grow rapidly.
17716	Prostatitis is caused by two reasons: bacterial and non-bacterial. Bacterial inflammation is due to poor hygiene. It often results to difficulty in urinating, pain after ejaculation, lower back and pelvic pain. Non-bacterial prostatitis meanwhile is due to prostate muscle spasm, viruses, or psychological disturbances.
17717	Acute bacterial prostatitis is caused by bacteria that often originate in the large intestine. Chronic bacterial prostatitis may ne caused by different factors including bacteria coming from catheter tubes used in draining the urinary bladder or infections present in other parts of the body. It can also be caused by urethral strictures that cause pressure during urination leading to inflammation of the prostate.
17718	Protanopia is a congenital color vision deficiencies. It is caused by an unequal recombination in the gene array passed on from the parents to their children. Patients with protanopia, or protans, either have faulty long-wavelength cones (L-cones) or missing the L-cones altogether. The latter is called protanopia or sometimes red-dichromacy.
17719	Protein C deficiency is caused by congenital biochemical anomalies. The deficiency can also be linked with other thrombotic disorders.
17720	Protein S deficiency is an illness that runs in the family - meaning it can be inherited causing abnormal blood clotting. The disorder can be carried in genes in various manners. Protein S deficiency can be caused by a deficiency in Vitamin K, liver disease, and some long-term infection including HIV.
17721	The disorder is caused by insufficient consumption of protein and energy foods needed by the body. There are also cases wherein the insufficiency is due to occur in individuals who are incapable of absorbing and converting vital nutrients to energy necessary for healthy tissue formation and proper organ action.
17722	Proteinuria can be associated as a symptom for diabetes and hypertension. Proteinuria is caused by the kidney's failure to filter albumin into the organ thereby allowing it to escape to the urine.
17723	According to some researches, proteus syndrome is caused by an unknown gene mutated in some cells, although normal in other cells of the body; however, the real is still not defined.
17724	Proximal myotonic mycopathy is caused by the mutation in the gene ZNF9. It becomes more severe when passed on the the next generations and eventually becomes an autosomal dominant disease.
17726	The main cause of the disease is unknown. Some of the conditions that develop in purigo nodularis are linked to Becker's nevus, linear lgA disease, and T cells. Other diseases of the body organs can also induce purigo nodularis, such as liver and renal failure.
17727	Dry skin causes pruritis when the condition is not accompanied with other obvious skin changes such as a rash. Dry skin is usually caused by environmental factors, which can be wholly or partially controlled by an individual. Such factors may be hot or cold weather with low humidity levels, long-term use of air conditioning or central heating, and too much washing or bathing. Skin disorders, internal diseases, allergies, and drug reactions can also cause the condition.
17728	Pruritis ani is caused by a variety of factors such as dry skin, too much moisture, excessive washing or failure to completely rinse the soap, chemical irritants, food irritants, medications, overuse of laxatives, hemorrhoids, infections, skin disorders, yeast infections, anal abrasions and fissures, anal tumors. Most cases are caused by harmless problems, while others may be a sign of a serious medical condition.
17731	Instead of growing back hair curls back into the skin because blades used for shaving sharpens the ends of the hairs. Other causes are: Shaving too closely Shaving daily
17732	Pseudogout is caused by the precipitation of calcium pyrophosphate dihydrate crystals in the interphalangeal joints.
17734	Pseudohypoaldosteronism is caused by other problems in the gastrointestinal and excretory systems, such as renal tubular acidosis and renal failure. It can also be a result of ammonium chloride and hydrochloric acid ingestions, and alcohol.
17735	The exact causes of pseudohypoparathyrodism are unknown but some of its symptoms indicate that it is an autosomal dominant disorder.
17736	The condition is usually caused by an overgrowth of the bacterium Clostridium difficile but some cases may also be caused by other organisms. Antibiotics may also disturb the normal bacterial balance within the colon facilitating the colonization and growth of C. difficile or other bacteria.
17737	Pseudomonas stutzeri infections may be a side effect of using the bacterium as treatment for serious diseases, since it is used to treat cancers and remove brain abscesses.
17738	The main causes of the ailment is unknown, but studies show that it may be because of the excess amount of cerebrospinal fluid that acts a cushion of the brain inside the skull.
17740	Pseudopapilledema can be an offset of other eye diseases such as optic disc drusden, hyperopia, and a myelinated optic fiber. In some cases it can be congenital.
17741	The disorder can be an offset of congenital adrenal hyperplasia; it can also be due to certain intersex conditions that include early testosterone production such as: 5-alpha reductase deficiency, partial androgen insensitivity syndrome, congenital adrenal hyperplasia due to 17-alpha hydroxylase deficiency, and testiscular dysgenesis.
17742	The condition is caused by certain mutations in the ATP. This mutations result to accumulation of metabolites that affect the retinoids and the elastic fibers of the skin and blood vessels.
17743	Psittacosis is caused by the bacterium Chlamydia psittaci that develops in birds and other poultry. Commonly affected animals include fowl, chickens, ducks and other birds. They emit the bacteria through their waste, and it can then be spread in the air.
17744	Despite being one of the oldest-known skin diseases, scientists still haven't detected the exact reasons for psoriasis. But some recent research shows that psoriasis is a result of certain genetic mutations in the skin cells as well as the immune system.
17745	The disease is caused by severe psoriasis. When psoriasis reaches the joints and muscular tissue, it attacks and destroys the cartilage surrounding the joints, leading to arthritis.
17746	Like psoriatic arthritis, psoriatic rheumatism is caused by severe effects of psoriasis.
17747	Psychogenic polydipsia is observed in mentally impaired and developmentally disabled patients. It is also a result of schizophrenia.
17749	Psychosis is caused by varying reasons; it can be brought about by previous medical conditions such as depression, schizophrenia, manic-depression, and substance use.
17750	Pterygium of the conjunctiva is caused by excessive exposure to sunlight, sand and wind. Wearing sunglasses thus prove to be a good way of preventing the disease.
17751	Food poisoning used to be called ptomaine poisoning. It is caused by different bacteria found in the food or water, and is ingested by a person. The most common are Salmonella, Staphylococcus aureus, E. coli, Shigella, and C. botulinum. Each type of bacteria may have different incubation period. Food and water can also be contaminated by viruses, environmental toxins, and poisons produced within the food itself.
17752	Depending on the kind, ptosis can be caused by a number of reasons. Acquired ptosis is a result of a muscle or nerve disease that occurred in the eye. In other cases, ptosi is congenital.
17753	The presence of pubic crabs is due to poor hygienic practices. Also, one may contract pubic crabs during sexual contact with and infected partner, or sleeping on the sheets where the parasites are present.
17754	Pubic lice is caused by physical and sexual contact with an infected person. It can also be acquired through infected objects. Pubic lice, however, have a lifespan of only up to 72 hours.
17755	The cause of the disease is the genital tract sepsis infection. This infection can be brought about by Group A Streptococcus and Group B Streptococcus.
17756	The disease can be an offset of other respiratory and cardiovascular diseases and infections. It can also be due to inhaling harmful dust and chemicals that are spread in the environment. Excessive smoking can also be a risk factor.
17757	Anthrax spores inhaled and lodged into the lungs. Incubation period of these spores may be from 1 to 7 days, sometimes up to 60 days. Anthrax is bacterial in nature.
17758	Heart failure often causes Pulmonary edema. Pressure in the vein going through the lungs starts to rise as the heart fails. The fluid that is pushed into the air sacs interrupts normal oxygen movement through the lungs, which results in shortness of breath. The condition may also be caused by direct damage to the lungs, such as severe infection or inhalation of poisonous gas. It can also be a complication of heart attack, leaking or narrowed heart valves, or any disease of the heart that results in weakening or stiffening of the heart muscle.
17759	The condition is caused by lower levels of oxygen as one goes to places of increased elevation. Climbing up at a 1,000 to 2,000-foot descent can already cause this sickness. Patients are likewise advised to go down to lower altitudes to reduce the symptoms.
17760	The condition is often caused by blood clots in the veins, especially veins in the legs or in the hips. In rare conditions, air bubbles, fat droplets, amniotic fluid, or clumps of parasites or tumor cells may also obstruct the pulmonary vessels. Blood clot in the veins of the leg, also called deep vein thrombosis (DVT), is the most common cause of Pulmonary embolism.
17762	There is no known cause for this disease, however, this disease appears to be secondary to a disorder of the respiratory system or chronic lung disease like acute pulmonary embolism and chronic COPD (such as emphysema and chronic bronchitis).
17763	The disease can be a result of congenital cardiovascular problems, such as an enlarged heart or heart valve abnormalities.
17764	There are several causes to this condition particularly severe pulmonary hypertension (high pressure in the arteries and veins of the lungs). Chronic lung disease, lung blood clots, and sometimes endocarditis (an inflammation of the lining of the heart and valves) cause pulmonary hypertension. Pulmonary incompetence may also be caused by surgery for congenital heart disease.
17765	Pulmonary sequestration may be due to a congenital malformation in the thoracic cavity. Other congenital heart and lung problems may also contribute to the onset of the disease.
17768	The exact causes of the inflammation are unknown.
17769	Pure red blood cell aplasia is an autoimmune disease. It can also be a result of other diseases such as thymoma, or viral infections like herpes, Fifth disease, or HIV. The disease is also associated with erythropoietin administration.
17771	Purpura can be caused by platelet disorders, vascular problems such as hypertension and vasculitis, and coaguation disorders. Deficiency in Vitamin C is also regarded to be a reason for purpura.
17772	The cause and means for this disorder remains to be unknown. Some studies show that this disorder may run in the family. Serious bleeding, however, does not seem to happen.
17773	The exact causes of the disease are unknown, but some studies show that it can be a response to problems in the immune system; it can an effect of sensitivity to certain drugs and medications.
17774	TTP is caused by the aggregation of platelets and coagulation in the blood vessels. When the platelets are consumed during the coagulation process, it causes the shearing of red blood cells, leading to hemolysis.
17775	The PVL can be generated by both meticillin resistant and meticillin sensitive strains of S. aureus.
17776	Pyaemia is caused by the thriving of staphylococcus bacteria in the body.
17777	Pyelonephritis results from a number of causes: it can be community acquired due to bowel organisms such as E.coli. Infections may also come from the hospital because of coliforms and enterococci.
17778	The condition has no known cause but genetics may have a role in it.
17779	The exact causes of the disease are unknown, but PG can be an indication of other gastrointestinal diseases as well as leukemia.
17780	Pyomyositis is caused by the bacteria Staphylococcus aureus.
17781	There are several causes to this condition: lack of pyridoxine in the diet, the use of the tuberculostatic medication isoniazid, grumpiness and irritability, Pyroluria,
17782	Loneliness and sadness followed by anger Primordial aspiration to express power over nature Fears/worries of castrations Rebellious attitudes and acts Craving/seeking for sensation Looking/seeking for attention Lack of social skills
17784	Pyropoikilocytosis is an autosomal recessive disease, a result of a genetic disorder with either one of the parents of the patient. The disease is usually discovered during infancy.
17785	Pyrosis results when the stomach is having slight difficulties in digesting food. It secretes acids that break the food down to smaller pieces; however it sometimes causes some pain due to its acidic effects. Women also suffer heartburn during their first three to four months of pregnancy.
17786	The condition is caused by abnormalities within the cell's mitochondria. Pyruvate dehydrogenase enzymes are not completely developed or produced resulting to such problems in a person's growth and development.
17787	PKD is caused by genetic defects in the pyruvate kinase gene. Once this gene becomes defective, enhanced oxygen delivery occurs, causing an overdose of the mineral. Oxygen would no longer be processed properly to feed on the needs of body organs, thus resulting to anemia. Preexisting medical conditions such as leukemia can also trigger PKD.
17788	Q fever is mainly caused by the bacteria Coxiella burnetti. C. burnetti can be transmitted to humans via consumption of milk as well as inhalation of urine and fecal waste of infected animals. The bacteria are resistant to drying, heat and other disinfectants.
17790	The condition may be due to traumatic or nontraumatic injuries. A traumatic injury may be caused by a sudden and severe blow to the spine leading to the fracture, dislocation, or compression of one or more vertebrae. Nontraumatic injury may be due to disk degeneration, arthritis, cancer, blood vessel problems or bleeding, and inflammation or infections.
17792	Queensland tick typhus is caused by rickettsia australis, an obligate, intracellular bacterial parasite that reproduces in the endothelial cells of tinyblood vessels that cause vasculitis.
17793	The disease is caused by the coxiella burnetii bacteria through inhalation, ingestion, or through the skin due to a bite from an infected tick.
17794	This disease occurs during a sever case of tonsillitis. It is when the infection spreads from a swollen tonsil to its surrounding areas.
17795	The bacterium Francisella tularensis causes the disease. It spreads through insect bites and direct exposure to an infected animal, airborne bacteria, and consumption of contaminated food or water.
17796	The virus that causes Rabies is known as Lyssavirus, a genus of RNA viruses that comprises the Australian bat lyssavirus, Duvenhage virus, Lagos bat virus, Aravan virus, Mokola virus and West Caucasian bat virus. This virus is generally present in the saliva of infected animals, and transmitted to others by bites. All warm-blooded mammals can potentially get the virus; while there are some that may serve as natural reservoirs of the virus. Commonly, humans are exposed to the rabies virus when bitten by an infected animal. Transmitted through the mucous membrane or the skin, the virus then replicates in the striated muscle cells at the bite site, rapidly spreading to the Central Nervous System and ultimately replicating in the brain. The virus then spreads through the nerves and into the other tissues, including the salivary glands. Very rarely, the rabies virus may also be transmitted through airborne droplets and infected tissue transplants.
17797	Rabson-Mendenhall syndrome is a rare hereditary symptom transmitted via autosomal recessive pattern of inheritance. The condition often affects the children of consanguineous parents. Similar to leprechaunism, Rabson-Mendenhall syndrome results from a molecular mutation of both alleles of the insulin-receptor gene. Biologically, infants present with fasting hypoglycemia, postprandial hyperglycemia and hyperinsulinemia. The latter often progresses to permanent hyperglycemia and recurrent diabetic ketoacidosis.
17799	The condition is due to exposure to a high dose of radiation, which may be received during an industrial accident , detonation of a small radioactive device as well as a conventional explosive device that disperses radioactive material and a standard nuclear weapon.
17800	Extreme radiophobia is often caused by poor information or a lack of understanding of ionizing radiation. More commonly, the phobia may also stem from a personal traumatic experience with radiation in general.
17801	Radon poisoning can be caused by an exposure to dangerous levels of radon gas.
17803	Ramsay Hunt Syndrome is an infection of the geniculate ganglion of the facial nerve caused by a herpes zoster virus. The disease results when a herpes zoster virus that has previously caused chickenpox is reactivated in the patient. The virus infects the facial nerve that controls the movements of facial muscles, thus causing a paralysis of the facial muscles on the same side of the face. Although Ramsay Hunt Syndrome is not necessarily contagious, the herpes zoster virus contained in its blisters can be transmitted and cause chickenpox in unvaccinated individuals. In general, patients with Ramsay Hunt syndrome are advised to avoid any contact with newborns, pregnant women, immunodepressed individuals, and people with no history of chickenpox, at least until all the blisters change to scabs.
17804	Rapadilino syndrome is caused by germ-line alterations in the RECQL4 helicase gene (a member of the RECQL gene family), which are also mutated in some Rothmund-Thomson syndrome (RTS) patients.
17805	The condition results from a stomach surgery like gastric bypass. It is also seen in people that has Zollinger-Ellison syndrome.
17806	The cause of Rasmussen's encephalitis remained a big medical mystery for several years. Early research seemed to indicate viral causes, but no organism was consistently found in the brains of afflicted patients. In the early 1990s, a breakthrough in research was achieved - Rasmussen's encephalitis was found to be an autoimmune disease, a disorder in which the body is attacked by its own immune system.
17807	There are two-types of gram-negative facultatively anaerobic bacteria that causes the rat-bite fever which are spirillosis and streptobacillosis.
17808	The actual cause of Raynaud's disease is, as yet, unknown. However, emotional stress and exposure to extreme cold are common triggers. Nicotine is also known to worsen the frequency and intensity of the attacks. Additionally, a hormonal component is suspected. Currently, clinical research points to a hereditary cause, but no sufficient evidence has been found to date.
17809	Razor bumps are caused by the downward growth of hair in areas usually shaved. It is usually affecting black men or anyone with very curly beard and often shave.
17810	Reactive arthritis exhibits with an autoimmune damage to the cartilages of joints. Commonly, the condition is set off by gastrointestinal or genitourinary infections, such as those resulting from food poisoning. The disease may also result from sexually transmitted infections. HIV positive patients have an elevated risk of contracting reactive arthritis. Genital infections that precipitate reactive arthritis include Chlamydia trachomatis, Ureaplasma urealyticum, and Neisseria gonorrhoeae. Common gastrointestinal triggers include Shigella spp., Yersinia spp., Salmonella spp., and Campylobacter spp.
17811	Physical Abuse Neglect or lack of attention Problems in care and social relationships Disturbances in affect regulation
17812	To date, the cause of reactive hypoglycemia is not clear. Recent studies indicate that some individuals may be overly sensitive to the normal release of epinephrine, a hormone which triggers hypoglycemic symptoms. Meanwhile, other researchers believe that reactive hypoglycemia results from a deficiency in glucagons, a hormone that normally protects the body against low levels of blood sugar. Less commonly, reactive hypoglycemia may occur as a consequence of an overproduction of insulin by the pancreas (i.e. hyperinsulinemia) due to a tumor known as insulinoma. In addition, reactive hypoglycemia may also manifest after stomach surgery or as a result of certain enzyme deficiencies due to disruptions in the balance between nutrient absorption and insulin secretion.
17813	The condition occurs by taking more than the required headache medications. Most pain relievers contribute to the condition. Certain medications however, may lead to rebound headaches. Such medications may include simple pain relievers, combination pain relievers, migraine medications, opiates. Daily doses of caffeine may also contribute to the condition.
17814	Rectal abscess is more commonly caused by high density bacterial infections that result in a localized buildup of abscess or pus. Certain underlying conditions and factors, including old age, diabetes, and Crohn's disease are risk factors for developing rectal abscess.
17815	Although the specific cause of rectal cancer is not known, it is believed to develop as a result of a variety of environmental and genetic factors. Smoking, aging, family history of colon or rectal cancer, high-fat diets, plus personal history of polyps or colorectal cancer are common risk factors in rectal cancer.
17816	The condition is usually caused by sexually transmitted diseases. Other causes may also include inflammatory bowel diseases, non-sexually transmitted infections, or a side effect of some medical treatments such as radiation therapy or antibiotics.
17817	The condition is caused by a variety of factors such as dry skin, too much moisture, excessive washing or failure to completely rinse the soap, chemical irritants, food irritants, medications, overuse of laxatives, hemorrhoids, infections, skin disorders, yeast infections, anal abrasions and fissures, anal tumors. Most cases are caused by harmless problems, while others may be a sign of a serious medical condition.
17819	This disorder is due to weakened muscles and ligaments that hold the rectum. This condition is ofter related to: age, long-term constipation or straining during defecation, long-term diarrhea, pregnancy and stress related to childbirth, previous surgery, cystic fibrosis, COPD, multiple sclerosis, paralysis, anal sex, and other sexual activities involving the anus.
17820	The condition usually occurs to persons with chronic constipation and may also be due to a rectum injury. The injury and recurrence of the condition may also be caused by constipation or impacted stool, manual removal of an impacted stool, straining during defecation, radiation treatment in which blood flow to the area are limited, and usage of ergotamine suppositories, which is an anti-migraine treatment.
17821	The condition occurs when the fascia between the rectum and vagina is weakened thus, allowing the rectums' front wall to bulge into the vagina. Some women may develop the condition during childbirth. Other processes that place pressure on the fascia can also lead to a rectocele. Typically, the condition occur after menopause during which estrogen decreases.
17823	Rectum cancer can be caused by poor diet or genetic disorders. The malignant cells in the rectum are formed into tumors called polyps, and these block the passageways of the blood causing ruptures and eventual septic shock.
17824	The cause of the condition is not usually known. But some actions rupture a small blood vessel in the eye such as violent coughing, strong sneezing, heavy lifting, and vomiting. Blood-thinning medications and some herbal supplements may increase the risk of subconjunctival hemorrhage.
17825	German measles is caused by a mild rubella virus infection. This is a common illness among teenagers and is not fatal.
17826	Currently, the cause of reflex sympathetic dystrophy syndrome is not known. However, certain precipitating factors have been identified, including illness, surgery, and injury. On the other hand, there are a number of documented cases wherein patients have no prior injury to the original site.
17829	Due to a genetic abnormality, people with ARD disease lack the enzyme that breaks down phytanic acid, which is a substance commonly found in foods. As a consequence, phytanic acid build ups in the brain, blood, and other tissues at toxic levels.
17830	The cause of regional enteritis is currently unknown, although it is believed to be autoimmune in nature and genetically linked.
17831	One of the most common bacteria associated with Reiter's syndrome is Chlamydia trachomatis, which is transmitted sexually. This form of Reiter's syndrome is also known as genitourinary or urogenital Reiter's syndrome. Several other bacteria associated with Reiter's syndrome, such as Salmonella, Shigella, Yersinia, and Campylobacter, cause infections via the digestive tract, usually as a result of food poisoning.
17832	Reiters arthritis is caused by two reasons. The first kind is due to complications from other sexually transmitted diseases such as Chlamydia, which is common among young men and sexually active people. The second kind is caused by salmonella infection, and is meanwhile more observed among the elderly.
17833	The two bacteria that cause the relapsing fever are Borrelia recurrentis and Borrelia duttoni that belongs to the Borrelia family.
17833	Bacteria cause tick-borne relapse fever from the bite of an infected tick usually during summer months. Louse-borne relapse fever is caused by another type of bacteria called Borrelia recurrentis transmitted from person to person through the body of a louse. This illness can be severe and may cause death.
17834	The cause of this disorder is unknown, however it is believed to an autoimmune or an immune system disorder.
17835	Renal agenesis, either unilateral or bilateral, is a congenital condition marked by the kidney's deficiency or failure to develop in a fetus. Renal agenesis is more common in the offspring of a patient with a kidney malformation. One in three infants born with this genetic defect are still born; those born alive usually do not last beyond four hours.
17836	The major cause of renal artery stenosis is atherosclerosis. Those with a sudden onset of hypertension at 50 years old or beyond usually develop renal artery stenosis. In young patients, usually in females under age 40, the leading cause is fibromuscular dysplasia. Other causes for renal artery stenosis include arthritis, extrinsic compression, renal artery aneurysm, neurofibromatosis, and fibrous bands.
17837	Kidney stones or renal calculi can be attributed to underlying metabolic disorders, including renal tubular acidosis, medullary sponge kidney, or Dent's disease. A common form of renal calculi consists of calcium oxalate crystals; and factors that stimulate the production of crystals are closely correlated with the formation of kidney stones or renal calculi.
17838	Although the exact cause of renal cancer is currently not known, there are a number of risk factors involved. Smoking has been known to increase a person's chances of developing renal cancer. Studies have also revealed a link between renal cancer and exposure to asbestos and cadmium. Family history can also play a major factor, as well as obesity and a high fat diet. In addition, patients afflicted with tuberous sclerosis as well as those with von Hippel-Lindau syndrome are predisposed.
17839	In general, any infection is capable of traveling to the kidney from any part of the body, ultimately causing an abscess or a urinary tract infection. The infection that causes renal carbuncle may also originate from the kidneys themselves, with kidney stones and kidney inflammations as possible triggers.
17840	To date, no specific cause for renal cell carcinoma is known. However, some risk factors have been identified - including smoking, obesity, and exposure to certain chemicals such as asbestos and cadmium. A history of renal cell carcinoma in the family may also predispose an individual to the disease. Additionally, patients with tuberous sclerosis or von Hippel-Lindau syndrome have greater risk of developing renal cell carcinoma.
17841	The main causes for renal colic are urinary blockage or the lack of urine and urinary stones. This can be due to excessive calcium or oxalate in the urine, too much uric acid, cystinuria, and drugs.
17842	Renal dysplasia mesomelia radiohumeral fusion syndrome is a congenital syndrome passed via an autosomal recessive pattern of inheritance.
17843	Renal glycosuria results from the improper functioning of the renal tubules, which are which are the primary components of nephrons, the filtering units of the kidneys. Renal glycosuria is believed to be a congenital defect with an autosomal recessive pattern of inheritance.
17844	Renal osteodystrophy develops as a result of abnormally low levels of vitamin D in the body, extremely high levels of serum phosphate, tertiary hyperparathyroidism or hyperphosphatemia, as well as hypocalcaemia and low serum calcium levels. The latter two are attributed to the decreased excretion of phosphate by a damaged kidney.
17845	Tubercle bacilli (mycobacterium tuberculosis) are found in the urine of patients with extrarenal tuberculosis. These bacteria causes lesions in the glandular and cortical arterioles. It may develop to form necrotizing lesions. Finally, it will lead to an ulceration in the calyx and forms fistulae and strictures. The kidney then becomes fibrotic and scarred.
17847	Repetitive strain injury results when muscles of the hands, arms, and upper back are kept tense for extended periods of time due to repetitive motions and/or posture. Recent studies have found a link between repetitive strain injury conditions and certain psychological and social factors. RSI patients are observed to have been exposed to a great amount of psychological distress. In addition, job demands, poor relations with colleagues, and general work satisfaction have also showed an increase in pain. Some researchers also believe that stress is the main causal factor for repetitive strain injury.
17848	Respiratory acidosis occurs as a result of impairment in pulmonary alveoli ventilation. When the removal of carbon dioxide by the lungs is less than the production of carbon dioxide in the tissues, respiratory acidosis is the resulting condition. Respiratory acidosis may also be caused by diseases that affect the lungs, such as chronic bronchitis, emphysema, asthma, or severe pneumonia. It can also be induced by certain triggers, such as blockage of the airway due to swelling, a foreign object, or vomit. Other possible causes of respiratory acidosis include head injuries or brain tumors which can interfere with signals sent by the brain to the lungs, neuromuscular diseases which can impair the muscles around the lungs making it more difficult to breathe, and certain conditions that cause chronic metabolic alkalosis.
17849	Respiratory diphtheria is caused by a diphtheria bacterium, which invades the body via the mouth and nose. In some cases, it may enter view a break in the skin. The disease is transmitted from person to person via contaminated respiratory secretions or droplets in the air.
17849	As mentioned, this condition is a viral infection by nature. Diphtheria is contagious and is transmitted from one person to another by droplet or direct contact with the nasopharyngeal secretions of an infected person. Raw milk is also seen to serve as a medium for transmission.
17850	There are different causes of this condition. Namely: pulmonary dysfunction (like asthma, emphysema, congestive heart failure and cystic fibrosis), fatigue due to prolonged tachypnoea in metabolic acidosis, or drug intoxication that suppresses respiratory function.
17851	There are more than 200 viruses can cause. Respiratory infection spreads through sneezing, coughing, or personal contact. It is easier to get this infection if the patient is tired or stressed, not eating enough healthy food, smoking and living and working in crowded areas.
17852	The most common cause is infection which is caused by the negative-sense, single-stranded RNA virus that belongs to the family Paramyxoviridae that also includes common respiratory viruses like the ones that cause mumps and measles. The virus causing this infection may enter in the mouth, eyes or nose. The virus can also reside for hours in countertops and toys once the contaminated object is touched you are most likely to acquire the virus.
17853	Respiratory system cancer is caused by a carcinoma or a malignant mass located in any part of the respiratory system.
17854	Restless legs syndrome is believed to be a congenital disease. More than half of documented cases are familiar. RLS is inherited via the autosomal recessive trait with variable penetrance. Some medications are also believed to aggravate the condition in those who already have it, or trigger it secondarily.
17858	There are several causes for this disorder namely: posterior vitreous detachment, trauma or injury to the eye or head causing a tear in the retina. Others may be caused by medical procedures like cataract surgery. Activities that involve rapid acceleration and deceleration may also be a cause like bungee jumping, drag racing and even rollercoaster rides.
17859	The mutation of the gene rhodopsin, a pigment that plays a central role in the visual transduction cascade, is believed to be the cause of retinitis pigmentosa. A number of varied mutations have been found in rhodopsin, accounting for a percentage of all types of retinal degeneration. Most of these mutations are inherited mostly in a dominant pattern.
17860	The development of the retinoblastoma tumor is caused by mutations of the RB1 gene, which was first identified in October 2007. The RB1 gene is responsible for coding retinoblastoma protein.
17861	Retinoschisis may be degenerative (reticular or typical), hereditary (familial foveal retinoschisis or X linked juvenile retinoschisis), tractional, or exudative (in which case the disease is only secondary to optic disc pit).
17862	An abnormally developed fetal sex organs or a tight spermatic cord possibly cause a retractile testicle.
17863	Certain medication, surgeries, or health conditions can affect the nerves or muscle that control the bladder opening causing retrograde ejaculation.
17864	Retrolental fibroplasia is believed to be a consequence of the disorganized growth of retinal blood vessels which may lead to a scarring or detachment of the retina. All premature babies have a predisposition to this disease. In addition, very low birth weight is another risk factor. Oxygen toxicity and relative hypoxia may also contribute to the development of retrolental fibroplasias.
17865	Retroperitoneal fibrosis is associated with a variety of immune-related conditions. The disease can also develop as a result of immunosuppression, leading to suspicion of an autoimmune etiology. A third of recorded retroperitoneal fibrosis cases are secondary to medication, malignancy, aortic aneurysm, or certain infections.
17866	Rett syndrome develops as a consequence of sporadic mutations in the MECP2 gene, which is located on the X chromosome. It almost invariably occurs in females; as affected male fetuses rarely survive to term.
17868	Reye's syndrome may affect otherwise healthy children within a week after suffering from viral infections such as chickenpox or influenza. The disease can even develop after a bout with an ordinary infection such as a cold. Although the exact cause of Reye's syndrome is not yet known, the disease is closely associated with the consumption of aspirin to manage the previously occurring viral illness.
17870	Rh disease is mostly attributed to an incompatibility of the mother's blood type to her baby's. Each individual has a distinct blood type as well as an Rh factor, which may be either positive or negative. When the mother's Rh factor and her infant's is positive, certain problems including Rh disease arise.
17871	The cell origin of rhabdoid tumors is currently unknown. However, recent research indicates a genetic basis for the tumor regardless of location. The disease has also been associated with abnormalities or mutations in chromosome 22.
17872	Rhabdomyolysis and its associated complications usually occur in patients who were injured in major disasters including violent bombings and earthquakes. Basically, any factor -- whether physical, chemical, or biological -- that can damage the muscle can cause rhabdomyolysis. Muscle damage induces a release of the breakdown products of damaged muscle cells into the bloodstream. Some products such as myoglobin are detrimental to the kidneys and may in fact cause severe kidney failure. In general, the causes of rhabdomyolysis can be classified as physical or nonphysical. In the former, the disease is confined to a particular part of the body. In the latter, the disease can simultaneously affect all muscles.
17875	This disorder has genetic nature. This happens when the expectant mother is Rh negative and the unborn baby is Rh positive.
17876	Rheumatic fever is caused by complications following a Group A streptococcal pharyngeal infection. Infections usually associated with Rheumatic fever are strep throat and scarlet fever, among others. Rheumatic fever is basically a systemic disease which affects the peri-arteriolar connective tissue. The main causal factor is believed to be cross-reactivity of antibodies following the infection.
17877	This permanent heart damage is caused by damaged heart valves where it fails to open and close properly. The damage begins with a strep throat caused by a type of bacteria called streptococcus A bacteria.
17879	The specific cause of rheumatoid arthritis remains a mystery to this day. However, certain infections are suspected to trigger the disease.
17880	The cause of the condition is not specifically known but genetics may contribute to the condition.
17881	An increase in histamine causes this disorder mainly due to allergens. It is mainly caused by the inflammation of the mucous membrane in the nose. The most common causes are: food, emotional, occupational and hormonal reactions, anatomic defects, immunodeficiency diseases, ciliary dyskinesia and animal interactions.
17882	The condition occurs when the patient's immune system starts producing allergy-causing antibodies causing a irritating reactions. It may sometimes be triggerd by seasonal or perennialallergens
17883	The nose appears large, bulbous and reddish. Patients suffering from this disorder may experience sensitivities to extreme temperatures, hot liquids, alcohol, spicy foods or working in the direct sunlight. This medical disorder may be caused by alcohol, it is wrong to attach alcoholism to this disorder.
17886	Costochondritis can be an effect of underlying cardiovascular and pulmonary problems; it can also be caused by environmental factors such as smoking, extreme heat, and changes in lifestyle.
17887	The primary cause of this deficiency is the poor vitamin intake of the patient. This vitamin is usually found in a person's diet like dairy products (cheese, milk and yogurt), and some vegetables (broccoli, asparagus, and spinach). The secondary cause of this deficiency is the body's inability to absorb the vitamin into the body.
17888	Currently, the specific cause of Richter syndrome remains unknown. However, some researches suspect the Epstein Barr virus as the primary trigger. In addition, some theories point to a link between the disease and genetics. It has been proposed that some genes predispose certain individuals to Richter syndrome.
17889	Ricin poisoning is brought about by exposure to ricin, which is found in castor beans. Ricin is a protein toxin that causes metabolic deficiencies in the cells.
17890	Common symptoms of rickets include tenderness and pain in the bones, dental deformities, muscle weakness, predisposition to fractures (easily broken bones), skeletal deformities, normal growth disruptions, hypocalcemia, soft skull (craniotabes), uncontrolled muscle spasms (tetany), Harrison's groove, and double malleoli resulting from metaphyseal hyperplasia. Among toddlers with advanced rickets, bow legs can be observed in x-rays or radiographs. A deformed chest is also quite common among affected children. Skeletal deformities can present as a "square headed" appearance. If untreated, these deformities may persist into adult life. Long-term symptoms can include permanent disfiguration of the long bones and a distinctly curved back.
17894	Rift Valley Fever is caused by the RVF virus, which is a member of the Phlebovirus genus (Bunyaviridae family). Human outbreaks are usually caused by mosquito bites or direct contact with infected goats, sheep, cattle, buffalo, and other livestock. RFV outbreaks commonly occur in sub-Saharan Africa, and occurrences of outbreaks in other regions are rare.
17895	Different maladies may cause this condition including: lung diseases, pulmonary arteries clots, pulmonary hypertension, and heart-valve disease. Triggers may include: increased salt and fluid intake, fever, infection, anemia, coronary artery blockage, arrhythmias, hyperthyroidism, and kidney disease.
17896	Riley-Day syndrome develops as a consequence of mutations in the IKBKAP gene on chromosome 9.
17897	Contrary to its name, the cause of the infection is not actually a worm, but parasitic fungi called Dermatophytosis, which thrive best on moist, hot skin hidden from sunlight. Transmission of ringworm infections is primarily through skin to skin contact. In addition, contact with contaminated items (e.g. using the hairbrush of an infected individual) may also transmit the infection. Ringworms are contagious and can readily spread among humans. Affected individuals are contagious even before they become symptomatic.
17898	The condition is caused by mold-like fungi that attack the scalp skin's outer layer invading the hair shaft and causing it to break. If untreated, the condition is contagious and easily spreads through contact with infected persons. It may also spread through touching common items touched by an infected person or animal, or grooming or petting an infected animal.
17899	The condition is caused by mold-like fungi that attack the scalp skin's outer layer invading the hair shaft and causing it to break. If untreated, the condition is contagious and easily spreads through contact with infected persons. It may also spread through touching common items touched by an infected person or animal, or grooming or petting an infected animal.
17900	This is caused by the Onchocerca volvulus, a nematode that can live for up to fifteen years in the human body. This is acquired through the bite of a black fly. The worms acquired from the bite of the fly then spreads to the body and when it dies they cause severe itching and strong immune system response that can destroy nearby tissue like the eye.
17901	Robinow syndrome is believed to be a genetic disorder with both autosomal recessive and autosomal dominant forms. The former is associated with mutations in the ROR2 gene (of chromosome 9), which is primarily responsible for some aspects of cartilage and bone development. The latter has not been attributed to a specific gene, but believed to be caused by new mutations of ROR2.
17902	Rocky Mountain spotted fever is caused by a species of bacteria known as Rickettsia rickettsii, which is transmitted to humans by ixodid (hard) ticks.
17904	Rodent ulcer is caused by over exposure to ultraviolet radiation of the sun. It is noninvasive and does not spread to the rest of the body. This ulcer is considered benign or non-fatal. Skin sensitivity to the sun tends to be hereditary.
17905	Romano-Ward syndrome is a hereditary disease, passed on via autosomal dominant pattern. The condition can develop as a consequence of mutations in the following genes: KCNE1, ANK2, KCNH2, KCNE2, KCNQ1, and SCN5A.
17906	Elevated levels of peptide cathelicidin Increased levels of stratum corneum tryptic enzymes (SCTEs) Hereditary - especially those that are fair-skinned of Celtic or European ancestry Triggers such as foods or exposure to extreme heatthat leads to episodes of blushing and flushing. Some medications and topical irritants can elevate rosacea. Some studies showed an increased numbers of the mite especially those that are experiencing steroid induced rosacea.
17909	Mosquito bite - Southern Saltmarsh mosquito (carrier of the Ross river virus)
17910	A rotator cuff injury may occur due to repetitive arm activities, falling, and lifting. The injury may also be caused by normal wear and tear and poor posture.
17911	This virus is passed on from the feacal to oral route. It infects cells that line the small intestines, producing an enterotoxin. This induces gastroenteritis, which leads to severe diarrhea and sometimes death through dehydration.
17912	Rotor syndrome is believed to be a hereditary disorder, autosomal recessive in pattern. It currently has no known origins.
17913	Rubella is caused by the Rubella virus, which is transmitted through airborne emissions from the upper respiratory tract of actively infected humans. In some cases, the virus may also persist in the skin, feces, or urine. There is no carrier state for the Rubella virus; it exists only in active cases. Incubation period for Rubella is typically 2 to 3 weeks.
17914	A fetus in the womb can develop congenital rubella syndrome if the mother contracts rubella, a disease caused by the rubella virus (more popularly known as German measles) during the first trimester of her pregnancy.
17915	Rubeola is caused by the paramyxovirus of the genus Morbillivirus. The virus is transmitted through respiration, particularly through contact with fluids from an infected patient's nose or mouth, either directly or through airborne transmission. Humans are the only known hosts of Rubeola, although the virus is believed to infect some non-human primates as well.
17916	Rubinstein-Taybi syndrome is a rare hereditary disease inherited via the autosomal dominant trait. Approximately 1 in 125,000 babies are born with Rubinstein-Taybi syndrome. Rubinstein-Taybi syndrome is caused by mutations in the CREBBP gene. The CREBBP gene is primarily responsible for producing CREB binding protein, a type of protein that regulates cell growth and is essential for normal fetal development. If a copy of the CREBBP gene is mutated, normal development is disrupted before and after birth, leading to classical signs of Rubinstein-Taybi syndrome. A small percentage of known cases are also associated with mutations in the EP300 gene, which result in the loss of one copy of the gene in each cell, leading to the reduction of amounts of p300 protein by half. The loss of one copy of EP300 gene leads to problems in normal fetal development.
17918	Runner's can be a result of extreme muscle stress on the knee due to strenuous activities. It can also be due to friction of the knee joints after incurring an injury.
17919	The condition may be due to a blow to the left upper abdomen or the left lower chest. The rupture may also be the result of an enlarged spleen.
17920	The main cause of the disorder is the defect in the persons' chromosome 7, wherein the gene is afflicted with maternal uniparental disomy. Other causes of the illness are brought by chromosome translocations and abnormal methylation of chromosome 11p15.
17923	Sacral agenesis is linked to a number of factors that occur approximately during the third to seventh week of fetal development. By the fourth week of development, the formation of the sacrum (lower back) and corresponding nervous system are usually nearing completion. Factors that facilitate this process are believed to trigger this congenital condition. However, the exact etiology of sacral agenesis remains unknown. It has been speculated that deficiencies in the mother's diet during her pregnancy as well as maternal diabetes are risk factors for sacral genesis in infants. Other less common risk factors have also been enumerated, including exposure to certain organic solvents during the early stage of pregnancy.
17924	The condition is congenital but its causes are unknown.
17925	Sacroiliitis is caused by a variety of factors such as heavy lifting, a traumatic injury or sudden impact, spondyloarthropathies, degenerative arthritis, and pregnancy. Sometimes the condition is caused by food bacteria called brucellosis.
17926	Saethre-Chotzen syndrome is a congenital disorder, autosomal dominant in pattern, caused by mutations in the TWIST transcription factor (basic-helix-loop-helix transcription factor). Saethre-Chotzen syndrome is very rare, occurring in only 1 in 25-50,000 live births.
17928	To date, it is not exactly clear how salivary gland cancer develops. However, it is believed to result from a number of environmental factors, such as exposure to radiation, smoking or chewing tobacco, as well as a history of salivary gland cancer in the family.
17929	Salla disease is a genetic disorder caused by mutations in chromosome 6, particularly in the gene SLC17A5. It is inherited via the autosomal recessive trait.
17930	Patients can get Salmonella food poisoning from unpasteurized milk, undercooked chicken and food containing raw eggs. Other foods and food preparation equipments may be contaminated if it comes in contact with surfaces infected by the bacteria. Poor hygiene can also cause this food poisoning.
17931	Salmonellosis is caused by Salmon ella bacteria, most commonly the Non-Typhoidal Salmonella. The bacterium can be contracted by ingesting undercooked or raw eggs. Ingesting incorrectly prepared poultry or cattle is another risk factor. In addition, infected milk and egg products are potential sources. Contact with known carriers (turtles, snakes, lizards, pet rodents, etc.) can also lead to an infection. Another type of salmonella bacterium is typhoidal salmonella, a rarer form which causes typhoid fever among humans. Humans are the only carriers of this type of salmonella. The bacterium is usually transmitted through direct contact with the fecal matter of an infected individual.
17932	Salpingitis is an infection usually originates in the vagina and moves up to the fallopian tube. Infection can spread from one fallopian tube to the other via the lymph vessels. Bacteria most connected this medical disorder are: N. gonorrhoeae, C. trachomatis, Mycoplasma, Staphylococcus and Streptococcus. Other factors may also cause this infection like surgical procedure that break the cervical barrier, STDs, ovulation, menstruation, and sexual intercourse.
17933	San Joaquin Valley Fever is caused by the fungus Coccidioides immitis. This fungus is present in hot, arid areas in southern United States, such as the states mentioned above. The spores of the fungus are spread in the air during rain showers, which can be contracted through inhalation.
17934	Sandfly fever is said to be caused by Phleboviruses that is transmitted by sand flies.
17935	Sandhoff disease is caused by mutations in the HEXB gene. This gene is primarily responsible for controlling the production of beta-hexosaminidase A and beta-hexosaminidase B, two enzymes that break down fatty substances, complex sugars, and other molecules that are linked to sugars. HEXB gene mutations disturb the normal functioning of these enzymes, leading to a toxic level buildup of GM2 ganglioside (fatty compound broken down by beta-hexosaminidase A) and other compounds inside cells.
17936	Sanfilippo syndrome is caused by the absence of enzymes that are necessary to break down the heparan sulfate sugar chain. The disease has 4 major forms, each of which affects a different enzyme. In its most severe form (Sanfilippo type A), patients have an altered form or are missing an enzyme called heparan N-sulfatase. The absence or alteration of alpha-N-acetylglucosaminidase is known as Sanfilippo type B. The lack of CoAlpha-glucosaminide acetyltransferase and N-acetylglucosamine 6-sulfatase are known as Sanfilippo C and Sanfilippo D, respectively. Sanfilippo syndrome is hereditary with an autosomal recessive pattern.
17939	The cause of Sarcoidosis remains unknown. However, it has been speculated that the potential pathogens are a type of cell wall deficient bacteria, which have not been identified in standard laboratory analysis. Meanwhile, other researchers have linked to disease to the involvement of Propionibacterium acnes. It is also believed that Sarcoidosis has a hereditary factor, although no specific genetic marker has been identified to date. An alternative theory is that affected family members are exposed to the same environmental factors that trigger Sarcoidosis.
17940	The cause of pulmonary sarcoidosis remains unknown. However, the disease has been linked to the presence of cell wall deficient bacteria, although no bacterium has been identified in standard laboratory tests. In addition, certain hereditary factors may be involved, but no genetic markers have been identified to date.
17941	Causes of primary bone cancers are not known, but the disease may have hereditary componetns.
17942	Granulocytic sarcoma tumors are extremely rare. They are more commonly described as manifestations of leukemia, and occur simultaneous with specific cytogenetic abnormalities, myeloblasts with T-cell surface markers, or elevated peripheral white blood cell amounts. In general, granulocytic sarcoma develops as a complication of acute myeloid leukemia.
17943	Sarcosinemia can develop as a consequence of genetic mutations of sarcosine metabolism. Folate deficiency has also been identified as a possible cause, particularly because folate is required to convert sarcosine to glycine.
17944	The exact cause or specific etiology of Satoyoshi syndrome is currently not known.
17945	According to Darold Treffert a researcher, there is no single theory that has been found that gives explanation about the Savant syndrome, though there is one theory that states the "it is the compensation of the right brain and left brain injury". Treffers says that this condition starts in the womb, where in the two hemispheres of the brain are competing for dominance mostly happens with male. As the two hemispheres are battling the male testosterone level in the fetus reaches the level it does in adult and somehow transfers the left dominance to the right. This can also be caused by brain injury.
17946	Say Meyer syndrome is a hereditary x-linked recessive disease.
17947	The cause of scabies is the mite Sarcoptes scabiei, of the hominis variety. The infection starts when the female of this species digs into the stratum corneum of a human host's skin and deposits her eggs in the burrow. After 3 to 10 days, the larvae hatches and travels on the skin, molts into nymphal stage, and then matures into adult mites. Typically, adult mites settle on the host's skin for 3 to 4 weeks. The action of the mites moving about on the skin produces a deeply itchy rash on the host's skin. Meanwhile, the eggs deposited in the skin causes an immensely adverse allergic reaction which also results in an intense itch. Scabies is easily transmitted through skin to skin contact with an infected person. Often, the infection is spread throughout members of one household or individuals sharing close quarters. Since scabies outbreaks mostly affect bed partners, it is sometimes considered a sexually transmitted disease. In addition, scabies can be spread via contact with infected clothes, beddings, or towels, although transmission through this mode has less significant risk.
17948	Scabies are caused by the parasite named Sarcoptes scabei, an arachnid that thrives in the sensitive folds of the skin, such as the armpits. This is where the parasite lays eggs. Infections can arise due to incessant scratching.
17949	SCAD deficiency is a genetic autosomal recessive disorder caused by mutations in the ACADS gene, leading to insufficient amounts of the short-chain acyl-CoA dehydrogenase enzyme. Diminished levels of this particular enzyme impair the break down of short-chain fatty acids. As a consequence, these short-chain fatty acids are not processed in the mitochondria and converted into energy.
17950	The condition may be caused by various reasons such as menopause, psychological problems, nutritional deficiencies, and mouth disorders such as oral thrush and dry mouth. Some studies suggest that dysfunctional or damaged nerves may also be one of the causes.
17952	The condition is usually caused by the bacterial infection known as strep throat, which is spread from person to person through mouth and nose fluids. The bacteria infects individuals through the air or things touched by an infected person. It also contaminates food. Rare cases are caused by other strains of Streptococcus pyogenes resulting from a skin infection or a uterine infection contracted during childbirth.
17953	Scarlet fever is caused by streptococcus pyogenes or group A streptococcus, which can also cause erysipelas, simple agine, and other toxin-mediated syndromes.
17954	The exact cause of Schamberg's disease is currently unknown. However, the primary trigger is believed to be the leaking or overflowing of blood from the small blood vessels close to the skin. It is also speculated that a recent allergic reaction or viral infection are risk factors.
17955	Scheie syndrome is a hereditary disorder with an autosomal recessive pattern. The disease develops as a consequence of the malfunction or absence of certain lysosomal enzymes necessary to break down glycosaminoglycans, or long chains of sugar that help in the development of bone, cartilage, tendons, skin, cornea, and connective tissue. As a result of the absence/malfunctioning of relevant enzymes, high amounts of glycosaminoglycans abnormally accumulate in the blood, cells, and connective tissues, leading to permanent and progressive cellular damage.
17956	Scheuermann's disease is said to be caused by wrong posture and aggravated by too much or strenuous activities, long period of standing and sitting.
17957	The exact cause of Schilder's Disease is not known though it may be linked to several other psychological and mental problems.
17958	Schinzel-Giedion syndrome is believed to be a recessive genetic defect. If both parents are carriers of the defective gene, the disease can affect 3 out of 4 of their children. The specific chromosome that carries the defect has not been identified to date.
17959	Schistosomiasis is caused by several parasitic species of fluke that belong to the Schistosoma genus. There are currently 5 species of flatworms that have been identified as causes of this disease.
17959	Schistosomiasis it caused by Schistosoma fluke infection.
17960	Schizencephaly has no known cause to date, although several theories about its etiology have been proposed. A popular hypothesis points to a link between Schizencephaly and an early, focal damage to the germinal matrix and surrounding brain at a time when the hemispheres are not yet fully developed. In other words, the brain may have suffered from severe impact or trauma at a critical time and in a critical location during normal brain development.
17961	The condition is an effect of schizophrenia, as well as traumatic experiences that deeply affected one's emotional balance.
17962	No specific cause of schizophrenia has been identified. However, psychiatric research correlates the disease to genetics, early environmental triggers, neurobiological and psychological factors, as well as a number of social processes. Although current research efforts are focused on the role of neurobiology, no single organic cause of schizophrenia has been identified.
17964	Schmidt syndrome has not been linked to a specific gene. However, certain genetic risk factors have been identified; in particular, carriers of a certain HLA genotype seem to be predisposed to the disease.
17966	Being bullied at school, learning new things at school Separation anxiety due to divorce, serious illness or death in the family
17968	In many cases of Schwannomatosis, there were some studies that link mutation in the NF2 gene as the primary cause of Schwannomatosis. It is a known genetic disorder.
17969	Generally, sciatica is caused by lumbar and sacral nerve compression. In less common causes, sciatica may be caused by compression of the sciatic nerve itself. However, there are also a number of cases in which sciatica is caused by a different factor or medical condition like the following: * Spinal disc herniation, which means pressing on one of the sciatic nerve roots. * Spinal stenosis, which is a condition wherein the spinal canal narrows and causes spinal cord compression. * Piriformis syndrome, a neuromuscular condition wherein the sciatic nerve is compressed by the piriformis muscle. * Sacroiliac joint dysfunction due to unhealthy postural habits and insufficient exercise leads to both vertebral and soft tissue problems. * Trigger points caused by low blood flow because of injury or chronic muscular contraction. * In some cases, sciatica can also occur during late pregnancy because the uterus presses on the sciatic nerve and other conditions brought about by pregnancy.
17970	The cause of Scimitar syndrome is still unknown.
17971	It is usually associated with other diseases like the Rheumatoid Arthritis and Wagener's Granulomatosis.
17972	It is said to be caused by the crest syndrome and scleroderma and commonly associated with diseases such as the mixed connective tissue disease and autoimmune disorders.
17973	The real cause of Scleroderma is unknown. There are different predisposing factors claimed to cause Scleroderma but is still not yet clearly established.
17974	Excessive collagen is most likely the main cause of limited scleroderma. But researchers also suspect other factors such as genetic makeup, pregnancy, hormones, and environmental factors.
17976	Leg length Muscle contractions Appendicitis Neuromuscular diseases Marfan's syndrome Poliomyelitis Cerebral palsy Birth abnormalities Hemivertebra Neurofibromatosis Muscular dystrophy Injury in the spine Tumors in the spinal cord Certain metabolic diseases, rheumatic diseases, connective tissue disorders, pelvis conditions, hip conditions and vertebral conditions
17977	The cause of Scoliosis with unilateral unsegmented bar is unknown or idiopathic. Scoliosis with unilateral unsegmented bar may be caused by different factors but there are still no definite cause that is clearly identified with this disorder. There are studies showing Mendelian inheritance as a cause of the deformity. Development of the disorder during adolescence is a result of an underlying anomaly.
17978	It is said to be cause by a bacterial spoilage of fish that breakdowns the protein and fish and produces histamine.
17979	Scrapie is caused by a prion. The prions may infect other animals through exposure to urine of animals infected with Scrapie. Prions may still be around in the exposed environment for a very long time, which may even last for decades.
17980	The exact cause of scratch dermatitis is still largely unknown. This usually begins when a person simply rubs the skin that causes the irritation. The more you scratch the area it comes more itchy that eventually causes the irritation to form.
17981	The condition is caused by a variety of factors such as cysts, inguinal hernia and tumors, infection, and inflammation. Specifically the condition may also be caused by epididymitis, spermatic cyst, hydrocele, hematocele, varicocele, orchitis, or cancer of the testicle.
17982	It is usually caused by the Orientia Tsutsugamushi that commonly transmitted through chiggers.
17983	The main cause of Scurvy is insufficient Vitamin C intake, which is greatly necessary for accurate collagen synthesis in humans. There are also cases of scurvy wherein poor dietary choices are pointed as the predisposing factor for the development of scurvy.
17984	This often is caused by visual confusion on a moving craft where in nearby objects are moving with the motion of the craft. This is also due to the abnormal pressure of the bowels against the diaphragm as they shift with the rising and falling of the ship.
17985	SAD is caused due to the lack of sufficient amounts of outdoor light. Genetic factors also play a big role in explaining the onset of the depression.
17986	SAD is usually caused by insufficient bright light during the winter months. It was found that bright lights change the chemicals in the brain.
17987	The abnormal proliferation of cells may be caused by a variety of factors such as hair follicle damage, a ruptured sebaceous gland, developmental defect, and heredity.
17988	Several contributing factors play a role such as abnormality of the oil glands and hair follicles, although the exact cause of seborrheic dermatitis is not known. With this disorder, people seem to have increased oil production called sebum.
17989	Seckel syndrome is caused by defect on genes on chromosomes 3 and 18. Other cases of Seckel syndrome is claimed to be caused by mutation in the gene encoding ataxia-telangiectasia and RAD-3 related protein, which maps to chromosome 3q22. 1q24, which is responsible in the damage response and repair mechanism of the cell's DNA.
17990	The condition results from the abnormal synchornization of the brain cells' electrical activity. It may be a due to a traumatic injury, infections, lack of oxygen, blood vessel malformations in the brain, stroke, brain tumors, and genetic syndromes
17991	This disorder is believed to be an effect of other disorders such as neuropathies, auditory processing disorders, genetic defects and encephalitis.
17992	The medical condition is said to be caused by aging inasmuch as it is most commonly seen in older people.
17993	Some sensorineural hearing loss is present at birth. Some cases are idiopathic; however, some factors are regarded as contributory including: * Viral infections like influenza, rubella, rubeola, mumps, and herpes simplex. * Vascular diseases like leukemia and sickle cell anemia * Auto-immune disease like temporal arteritis or lupus. * Drugs that may have caused hearing loss * Long-term exposure to noise and other environmental factors * Physical trauma
17994	The root cause of sensory integration dysfunction is not yet known. However this condition is usually observed in individuals with autism and other developmental disabilities. It is not yet clearly establish but some research points that sensory integration dysfunction can be inherited.
17995	Sensory Neuropathy have different causes; however in some cases sensory neuropathy is regarded as idiopathic or no known cause. There are studies and researches that prove that sensory neuropathy just like all neuropathies can be caused by poor nutrition, some diseases and nerve pressure, entrapment or lesion.
17996	Based on the widely acknowledged definition, sensory neuropathy just like all types of neuropathic pain is caused by a damage or pressure in the nervous system. In most cases, neuropathic pain appears as a result of disorders of the peripheral nervous system or the central nervous system. There are also cases wherein sensory neuropathy is caused by excessive glucose in the blood, which can get into the nerves, impeding their function by distracting the electrical impulses that they convey. Other causes may include Vitamin B deficiency, injury, certain drugs and even cancer.
17997	Separation anxiety is brought about by traumatic experiences that led to separation of the child from his/her loved ones. Parents having a divorce are an example, since either the mother or father has to leave home. A death in the family is also considered a traumatic separation experience.
17998	Sepsis is caused by bacterial infection, which can originate in any part of the body mostly in the internal organs like kidney, liver, bladder among others. There are also cases of sepsis wherein the cause is rooted to originate from contaminated surgical wounds and drains, intravenous lines, and from skin ulcers and bed sores.
17999	Septic arthritis may be caused by an infection elsewhere in the body that spreads to the joint through the bloodstream. Puncture wounds, surgery, and drug injections may also cause the infection. The bacteria Staphylococcus aureus usually causes the condition. Viruses and fungus may also cause septic arthritis.
18000	Known causes of septic shock are sepsis, cytokines which cause the blood vessels to dilate that result to blood pressure dropping.
18001	Septicaemia is caused by a preexisting condition called bacteremia, wherein harmful bacteria have already infested the circulatory system.
18002	Septicemia is said to be caused by an infections in the body like the lungs, the urinary tract including the bone and the central nervous system as in the case of meningitis.
18003	Septo-optic dysplasia is a sporadic birth defect with no known cause; however it is regarded as a developmental disorder consequential from a defect of standard embryological development.
18004	Serious Digitalis Intoxication is caused by undesirable and unfavorable effect of the digoxin (digitalis) drug.
18005	Seronegative spondyloarthropathy is said to be caused by the spinal inflammation due to the presence of bacteria and infectious pathogens in the body.
18006	Dangerous levels of serotonin usually due to too much medication causes serotonin syndrome.
18007	The cause of serum sickness is exposure to antibodies that come from animals, antitoxins and certain drugs such as barbiturates, penicillins and quinidine.
18008	Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome is caused by the SARS-associated coronavirus. Mode of transmission can be direct contact with an infected person or contact with infectious body secretions.
18009	SARS is caused probably by a virus where in an unknown coronavirus or other probability is a paramyxovirus.
18010	The condition may be caused by a variety of problems such as rraumatic brain injuries, stroke, diabetes, lack of oxygen, infections, or toxins, which may also cause brain damage leading to coma.
18011	Severe combined immunodeficiency is a group of inherited disorders that can be caused by mutations in the gene.
18012	Sexual Dysfunction is said to be caused by diabetes, diseases concerning the heart and blood vessels. It may also be cause by emotional or psychological factors such as stress and anxiety.
18013	It is said to be cause by any sexual activity that leads to an orgasm like sexual intercourse and masturbation.g into or around the brain. It may also be caused by intake of birth control pills, glaucoma, anemia, sinus infection and low blood sugar.
18014	Sexual Neuropathy is caused by diabetes, both type 1 and type 2, and neuropathy which may be autonomic or diabetic.
18015	At present, there is still no known cause for the development of Sezary Syndrome.
18016	There is still no definite proof establishing what really causes Sezary's lymphoma.
18017	Non-accidental trauma or child abuse causes SBS this happens when an angry parent or caregiver shakes a baby in response to constant crying. In some cases this happens when tossing the baby in the air or jogging with a baby in a backpack.
18020	Sheehan syndrome is caused by tissue death in the pituitary gland due to excessive blood loss during and after childbirth. Another factor to the development of Sheehan syndrome is the presence of scattered and distributed intravascular coagulation.
18021	All foods allergies are caused by the malfunction of the body's immune system.
18022	Shigellosis is caused by the Shigella bacteria, which are frequently present in water contaminated with human feces. Unsanitary handling of food can also be considered as one way of contamination.
18023	Overloading the shinbone and the connective tissues that attach the muscles to the bone cause shin splints. Specific athletic activities such as running downhill, on a slanted or tilted surface, and in worn-out footwea; engaging in sports with frequent starts and stops; training too hard, too fast, or for too long can cause shin splints.
18024	Shingles is caused by the reactivation of an earlier chicken pox infection.
18025	Shock has several causes including low blood volume, inadequate pumping action of the heart or excessive widening of the blood vessels.
18026	Short bowel syndrome is likely to develop when more than two-thirds of the small intestine is removed either through surgery or congenital absence of an extensive part of the small intestine.
18027	Short QT Syndrome is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means that one copy of the altered gene in each cell in enough to cause the disorder. There were studies proven that Short QT Syndrome is caused by mutations in the KCNH2, KCNJ2, and KCNQ1 genes.
18028	The particular cause of Short rib-polydactyly syndrome is unknown but it has been observed that it result to abnormal bone development and growth prenatally.
18029	The condition is usually genetically inherited due to a random genetic mutation. Other causes may include hormone deficiencies and poor nutrition.
18030	Shoulder Arthritis is said to be caused by the grinding of the bone against each other due to the absence of hyaline articular cartilage which prevents friction at the joints.
18031	It is said to be caused by an infection or by Rheumatic condition or by an injury and lifting a heavy object.
18032	The cause of Shprintzen syndrome is unknown. It is a known fact that it is a genetic problem and that most children diagnosed with this syndrome are missing a small part of chromosome 22. This is the reason why there valid theories that the syndrome is caused by a deletion of a small part of chromosome 22.
18033	Until now, the real cause of Shulman-upshaw syndrome remains indefinable; recently however studies point to the inherited deficiency of ADAMTS13.
18034	Shwachman syndrome can be inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern. It is caused by gene mutations in the long arm of chromosome 7 at cytogenetic position 7q11.
18035	Shwachman syndrome can be inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern with gene mutations located in chromosome 7q11.
18037	The cause of Shy-Drager syndrome is unknown; the syndrome gradually develops and is often diagnosed in males with ages over 60.
18038	Sialadenitis is a bacterial infection of the salivary gland caused by either of the following bacteria: staphylococcus, streptococcus, anaerobic or Haemophilus influenza.
18039	Sialidosis is caused by insufficiency of the alpha-neuraminidase enzyme.
18040	Sicca syndrome is an autoimmune disorder. It is as well triggered by X-ray irradiation, iron overdose and other diseases.
18041	The main cause of the syndrome is due to the poor working conditions of the building. This can be brought about by poor design and lack of maintenance of the facilities. Environmental factors can be a cause as well.
18042	Diseases and conditions that scar or damage the electrical system of the heart can cause the condition. Age-related wear and tear to the heart muscle are usually the cause of most cases.
18043	Sickle cell anemia can be inherited from parents.
18044	Sideroblastic anemia, autosomal is caused by a genetic defect. The gene involved is an X-linked recessive gene.
18047	Hypertension is caused mainly by high blood pressure. High blood pressure can be inherited, an effect of diets as well as obesity, or can be due to emotional anxiety.
18048	Silicosis is caused by breathing in crystalline silica dusts.
18049	The exact cause of Silver-Russell dwarfism is unknown but lately, some researches link it to a genetic component in the maternal genes.
18050	Silvery hair syndrome is a genetic condition; it can be inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern of inheritance.
18051	Simpson-Golabi-Behmel syndrome is inherited in an X-linked recessive pattern. In this inheritance pattern, only males are affected; women are only carriers of the disorder.
18052	Sin Nombre virus infection is primarily caused by the deer mouse. Other carriers include rice rat, cotton rat, and the white-tailed mouse. The virus is transmitted to people when through inhalation when the virus is shed in infected rodents' droppings, urine, or saliva.
18053	A hiccup results from the unintentional contraction of the diaphragm making the vocal cords close very briefly producing the hiccup sound. Acute or transient hiccups however, do not have a clear cause but may be triggered by factors such as eating spicy food; eating a large meal, drinking carbonated beverages, or swallowing air; drinking alcohol; sudden temperature changes; using tobacco; and sudden excitement or emotional stress. Persistent and intractable hiccups may have been a result from an underlying medical condition such as nerve damage or irritation, central nervous system disorders, metabolic disorders, surgery complications, and mental or emotional triggers.
18054	Sino-auricular heart block is caused by a delay or disruption of the electrical signals that control the heart beat causing the heart to beat in an irregular pattern. Ultimately, it is caused by damage in the tissues that pass the electrical signals through the heart.
18055	It is said to be caused by the mutations within the genes of the cells making the sinus cancer a genetic disease.
18056	Most common causes are allergens or pollutants. A bacteria known as Streptococcus pneumoniae, Haemophilus influenzae, and Moraxella catarrhalis normally cause acute sinusitis. The said microorganisms and Staphylococcus aureus and anaerobes cause chronic sinusitis.
18057	Sinus Node Disease is caused by the Sinus nodes that develop in the heart due to mutations of the genes.
18058	Most cases of Sipple syndrome are pointed to result from autosomal dominant inheritance. It is rare in children and may occur any time from adolescence to old age.
18059	Sirenomelia is caused by a disruptive vascular defect in the lower aorta in utero. The exact cause is still unknown but the congenital defect is not thought to be hereditary.
18061	Sitosterolemia can be inherited in a rare autosomal recessive pattern of inheritance.
18062	Situs inversus is an autosomal recessive genetic condition, which is X-linked meaning only males can be affected.
18063	The disease is caused by two subtypes of the herpes virus, herpes virus 6 (HHV6) and herpes virus 7 (HHV7).
18064	Rheumatoid arthritis are underlying medical conditions that could possibly cause Sjogren's syndrome; however there are researchers that link the condition to a combination of genetic and environmental factors like viral or bacterial infection.
18064	Why the immune system attacks healthy tissues is unknown. But factors such as heredity, hormones, a viral or bacterial infection, or the nervous system may trigger the condition. Sjogren's syndrome may also result from a rheumatic condition.
18065	Skeletal dysplasia is a result of genetic defects and metabolic disorders in a person's chromosomes. The causes can be autosomal dominant as well as autosomal recessive.
18066	The most known cause of skin cancer is Ultraviolet (UV) exposure. Other causes include the use of tanning booths, immunosuppression - destruction of the immune system, exposure to abnormal levels of x-rays and contact with chemicals such as arsenic.
18066	Most types of skin cancer are attributed to ultraviolet light exposure, such as constant exposure to sunlight, commercial tanning lamps, and tanning beds. Other factors that may cause cancer of the skin include heredity, exposure to toxic chemicals, as well as radiation treatments.
18067	It may be caused by high stress levels and usually occurs with people that have diabetes mellitus and pregnant women. It is also said to be hereditary.
18067	Skin tags are usually caused by immense irritation of the skin to certain materials such as jewelry. Shaving can also cause the growths.
18068	The illness usually spreads from person to person through respiratory secretions and hand-to-hand contact. If the rash is still absent, the condition is contagious. Its appearancd signals otherwise.
18069	The shape of neck and head may make airway smaller than normal. Large tonsils, being obese, tongue and throat muscles are relaxed than Norman when sleeping, smoking, nasal congestion and it can also be hereditary.
18070	The condition happens during REM sleep so it prevents the body from making movements. It is also suggested that it can be related to post-synaptic inhibition of motor neurons in the region pons located in the brain. Low-levels of melatonin is also seen as a cause. Other factors that may increase paralysis and hallucinations are abnormal sleeping patterns, sleeping in a face upwards position, high stress level, sudden lifestyle change and a clear dream that instantly precedes the episode.
18070	The condition happens during REM sleep so it prevents the body from making movements. It is also suggested that it can be related to post-synaptic inhibition of motor neurons in the region pons located in the brain. Low-levels of melatonin is also seen as a cause. Other factors that may increase paralysis and hallucinations are abnormal sleeping patterns, sleeping in a face upwards position, high stress level, sudden lifestyle change and a clear dream that instantly precedes the episode.
18071	Sleepwalking may be due to fatigue, stress, anxiety, or fever. It may also be associated with an individual's medical or mental health conditions such as abnormal heart rhythms, backward flow of stomach acid into the esophagus, seizure disorders, obstructive sleep apnea, post-traumatic stress disorder, or panic attacks. Alcohol and certain medications may also trigger sleepwalking.
18072	A slipped disc is caused by heavy or sudden bending of the spine.
18073	Sly syndrome is caused by a defective gene positioned on chromosome 7.
18074	Smoking tobacco is one of the major causes or risk factor in the development of small cell lung cancer. Non-smokers are not very much prone to develop this type of lung cancer.
18075	SIBO is caused by a variety of reasons. It can be an effect of other underlying diseases in the gastrointestinal tract, and other neurological and muscular illnesses.
18076	It is said to be caused by mutation of the genes surrounding the small intestines.
18077	Smallpox is a very serious disorder that is caused by a virus called variola that infects humans.
18079	Smith-Magenis syndrome is caused by an irregularity or defect in the short arm of chromosome 17.
18081	The definite cause of Sneddon syndrome is still unknown.
18082	Snoring can be cause by a variety of factors such as an individual's mouth anatomy, alcohol consumption, nasal problems, or sleep apnea.
18083	There are no exact causes related to social phobia but researchers believe that genetics play a role together with environmental factors. Social experience such as being embarrassed in front of many is the most common cause of social phobia. Development of social skills or fear of interacting with other people is also found to contribute to this disorder. According to scientists an imbalance of the chemical serotonin in the brain is also a factor.
18084	In most cases, Sociophobia is caused by intense fear of being observed and scrutinized.
18085	Generally, no one knows what really causes different types of soft tissue sarcoma but DNA mutations in soft tissue sarcoma are very common. This can be acquired from exposure to radiation or cancer causing chemicals.
18086	The condition is caused by frequent or intense exposure to ultraviolet rays, typically from the sun.
18087	The condition is typically caused by ultraviolet light from the sun, which accelerates the skin's melanin production. The use of commercial tanning lamps as well as tanning beds can also cause the same changes in the long run. Growing old and genetics are also factors of this condition.
18088	The condition usually occurs to persons with chronic constipation and may also be due to a rectum injury. The injury and recurrence of the condition may also be caused by constipation or impacted stool, manual removal of an impacted stool, straining during defecation, radiation treatment in which blood flow to the area are limited, and usage of ergotamine suppositories, which is an anti-migraine treatment.
18090	Viral sore throats which compose of about 90% of all cases of infection and can also be a cause of several types of viral infections. Causes of this kind of sore throat are adenovirus, orthomyxoviridae, infectious mononucleosis, herpes simplex virus, measles and common cold virus. Bacterial sore throats are commonly caused by the bacteria streptococcus and also diphtheria which is an upper respiratory infection.
18091	The exact cause of Soto's syndrome is not yet fully defined and exact genetic abnormality is not yet known.
18092	Like most food allergies, soy allergy is triggered by a malfunction in the body's immune system. It identifies soy as a harmful product, thereby triggering an allergic reaction and releases histamine to help the body ward off the irritant.
18093	Sparganosis is said to be caused by the parasitic tapeworm larva named spargana which migrates to tissues under the skin causing the nodules to be itchy, inflammed and painful.
18094	The real cause of spasmodic dysphonia is unknown. There are researches that links spasmodic dysphonia has something to do with the nervous system (brain and nerves). There are cases wherein spasmodic dysphonia is thought to be inherited. There are also cases wherein the voice disorder is a result of previous infection, laryngeal injury or prolong use of voice or sometimes, stress.
18095	The exact cause of spasmodic torticollis is still unknown, but there are researches that associate the condition to a genetic link. The condition often occurs to people within twenty-five to fifty-five years of age.
18096	The exact cause of spasticity is not known. It is however, observed that certain conditions, like fatigue, multi-tasking, and cold weather can trigger spasms.
18097	No one knows what underlying cause a spermatic cyst. However, many medical experts believe it can be a result of a blockage in the tubes that drains sperm from the. Inflammation and trauma may also be a cause.
18098	The cause of the condition is unknown. But experts believe it is the result whe on of the tubes that drain sperm from the testicle into the epididymis is blocked.
18100	Spherocytosis is caused by a molecular defect in one or multiple proteins of the red blood cell cytoskeleton. Due to the defect in the cell skeleton, the blood cells shrink assuming the sphere shape instead of the normal donut shape.
18102	Spider angiomas are associated to pregnancy. It is also believed to be caused by birth control pills, or a symptom of liver disease.
18104	Spielmeyer-Vogt disease can be inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern. Six genes have now been defined to cause Spielmeyer-Vogt disease both in children and adults.
18105	The cause of Spina bifida has been associated with environmental factors in several areas, particular medications taken during pregnancy and to insufficient folic acid during pregnancy.
18106	Frequent causes of spinal cord injury is trauma brought about by car accident, falls, gunshot, sports-related accidents and other incidents wherein damage to spinal cord is affected; diseases like polio, Spina bifida and cysts located on the spinal cord.
18107	Although scientists are studying more about the genetic and environmental factors that are involved in the development of spinal cord neoplasm, the exact cause of this tumor is still not yet defined. It has been proven that a significant amount of abnormal genes are contained in spinal cord neoplasm, researchers are not yet fully aware what really caused the genetic variations. There are cases, wherein spinal cord neoplasm runs in the family.
18108	Spinal muscular atrophy is caused by progressive degeneration of certain spinal cord cells known as anterior horn cells. Other forms of Spinal Muscular Atrophy are caused by mutations of the SMN gene while other cases are linked to mutations of the UBE1 gene on X chromosome.
18109	The cause of spinal shock is usually spinal injury with traumatic in origin but can also be associated with mechanisms of injury that progresses within a specific span of time.
18110	Spinal Stenosis is often caused by gradual aging process. Other cases are caused by bulging or herniated discs, tumor or osteoporosis.
18111	The specific cause of spinal tumor is currently not known. However, the condition has been linked to a number of genetic factors.
18112	Spinocerebellar ataxia is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern of inheritance. All types of spinocerebellar ataxia is caused by mutations in various genes.
18114	Splenic-flexure syndrome is thought to be caused by spasm or distension of the splenic flexure of the colon.
18115	There can be different factors that may cause splenomegaly because the spleen is responsible for a wide variety of functions. The following are some of the causes of splenomegaly:  Infections, which can be caused by a virus, bacteria, and parasite  Various kinds of hemolytic anemia like thalassaemia, immune hemolytic anemia, etc.  Cancers  Diseases involving the liver  Other causes including disorders like Sarcoidosis
18118	The real cause of spondylarthropathy is unknown but risk factors include family history of spondylarthropathy and individuals who are HLA-B27 positive.
18119	The cause is not clearly established but there cases wherein increased familial incidence or family history of spondylitis is considered as a risk factor.
18120	The cause of spondyloepiphyseal dysplasia is mutations in the COL2A1 gene, responsible for forming type II collagen. This protein is necessary for normal bone and connective tissue development. Spondyloepiphyseal dysplasia is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern of inheritance, meaning one copy of altered gene is enough to cause the disorder.
18121	Spondyloepiphyseal dysplasia, congenital type is caused by mutations in the COL2A1 gene, obstructing the gathering of type II collagen molecules.When this occurs normal bone development would be impossible; thus cause the signs and symptoms of Spondyloepiphyseal dysplasia, congenital type. The condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern of inheritance.
18122	The cause of spondylometaphyseal dysplasia is mutations in the COL2A1 gene, responsible for forming type II collagen; which is necessary for normal bone and connective tissue development. Spondyloepiphyseal dysplasia is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern of inheritance, meaning one copy of altered gene is enough to cause the disorder.
18123	Spongiform encephalopathy may be caused by an infectious agent such as virus, bacteria or prion. It can also be caused by brain abscess or tumor resulting to intracranial pressure. Other causes may be due to exposure to toxic matters, excessive radiation, trauma and even lack of blood flow or oxygen supply to the brain.
18124	Treatment of sporotrichosis is based on the gravity and location of the disease. Treatment options may include: antifungal drugs like Itraconazole and fluconazole, and Amphotericin B; saturated potassium iodide solution. In rare cases when lungs and bones may be affected, surgery may be considered as the best treatment option.
18125	Rocky Mountain spotted fever is caused by Rickettsia rickettsi while Mediterranean spotted fever is caused by the bacteria Rickettsia conorii.
18127	Most cases of squamous cell carcinoma are caused by excessive sun exposure. Some cases are associated with exposure to cancer-causing agents.
18128	Squints are caused by refractive errors brought about by genetic defects as well as brain tumors.
18129	St. Anthony's fire is caused by excessive exposure to ergotamines, which are produced by a fungus called Claviceps purpurea.
18130	St. Louis encephalitis virus is the cause of this condition. Mosquitoes, which become infected by feeding on birds infected with the St. Louis encephalitis virus, transmit the St. Louis encephalitis virus to humans and animals during the feeding process.
18131	Physical exertion causes stable angina. Such exertion may include climbing the stairs, and exercising or walking . Other factors such as emotional stress, heavy meals, cold temperatures, and smoking may also trigger angina.
18132	The bypassed portion of intestine or the blind loop does not allow the passage of food resulting in food fermentation that encourages bacterial growth. The condition may sometimes be a result of a gastric surgery, abnormalities in the operations and structure of small intestine, and other medical conditions such Crohn's disease and scleroderma and diabetes
18133	The exact cause of the condition is unknown. But it may be inherited genetically. Other factors may include language development and signal difficulties.
18134	The staph bacteria can cause illness through direct infection that occurs in most staph-associated skin disorders and through toxins that the bacteria produce. The bacteria are found worldwide, small element of soil microbial flora.
18135	The illness may result from direct skin infections, food poisoning, toxic shock syndrome, septic arthritis, MRSA, and CA-MRSA. The bacteria are usually transmitted through skin-to-skin contact and small cuts and abrasions
18136	The cause of this medical condition is the exposure to the staph bacteria.
18137	The cause of this condition is the staphylococcus aureus bacteria from contaminated food.
18138	Stargardt disease is most of the time inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern of inheritance meaning both parents are carriers of the disorder, there are also cases wherein Stargardt disease is linked to be caused by waste deposit (lipofuscins) accumulation in the retina usually caused by the inability of the cell to transfer vitamin A from the retinal pigment epithelium to the photoreceptor cells.
18139	The cause of STARI is the bacteria from lone star tick bite.
18140	The bypassed portion of intestine or the blind loop does not allow the passage of food resulting in food fermentation that encourages bacterial growth. The condition may sometimes be a result of a gastric surgery, abnormalities in the operations and structure of small intestine, and other medical conditions such Crohn's disease and scleroderma and diabetes
18141	The cysts of steatocystoma multiplex is believed to originate from an abnormal lining sebaceous duct. It is also have an association with the defects in Keratin 17.
18142	The possible causes of steatorrhea are lack of bile acids, defective mucosal cells, and defects in pancreatic juices. This condition may also be attributed to malabsorption, exocrine pancreatic insufficiency, chronic pancreatitis, bacterial overgrowth, short bowel syndrome, cystic fibrosis, and abuse or misuse of certain prescribed slimming pills.
18143	The cause of the condition is not clearly determined. However, may believe that metabolic syndrome may contribute to the development of the condition. Researchers also suspect a genetic factor contributing to the disorder, or affecting its severity.
18144	The cause of the condition is not known but it results from the deterioration of cells in areas of the brain that control movement.
18145	The real cause of Stein-Leventhal syndrome is unknown but there are links relating the syndrome to be caused by insulin resistance, diabetes and obesity.
18146	The condition is caused by a narrowing of the sheath surrounding the tendon in the affected finger.
18147	Almost most cases of Stevens -Johnson syndrome have unknown cause; there are also cases wherein the cause of the syndrome is associated with allergic reactions to medications, infections, cocaine usage and in rare cases, cancer. There are also reports that claim side effects to herbal supplements like ginseng can cause Stevens - Johnson syndrome.
18148	The syndrome is thought to result from a mutation of several collagen genes during fetal development. It is a sex independent autosomal dominant trait which means a person with the syndrome has a 50% chance of passing it on to each child.
18149	The syndrome is thought to result from a mutation of several collagen genes during fetal development. It is a sex independent autosomal dominant trait which means a person with the syndrome has a 50% chance of passing it on to each child.
18150	The syndrome is thought to result from a mutation of several collagen genes during fetal development. It is a sex independent autosomal dominant trait which means a person with the syndrome has a 50% chance of passing it on to each child.
18151	Stickler syndrome is thought to be caused by several collagen genes mutations during fetal development.
18152	This condition is caused by blocked eye duct. These may be a result of sexually transmitted infections during childbirth or may be associated with a common cold.
18153	Since many patients with SPS have circulating antibodies to the enzyme glutamic acid decarboxylase (GAD), an autoimmune cause of the disease has been theorized. A mutation in GLRA1 (glycine receptor) is responsible for a few cases of stiff person syndrome.
18154	Three autoantibodies is linked with the occurrence of stiff-person syndrome. The idiopathic form is most often associated with glutamic acid decarboxylase antibodies; the paraneoplastic form, with amphiphysin antibodies; while, gephyrin antibodies is associated with stiff-person syndrome.
18155	One theorized cause is that Still's disease is the result of infection with a microbe. There is another idea that Still's disease is a hypersensitive or autoimmune disorder. In fact, the cause of Still's disease is unknown.
18156	If the hostage taking took several days, hostages are most likely to have the syndrome. In some cases, hostage takers communicate with the hostages and when hostage takers show kindness toward the hostages. Sometimes, people who feel helpless will do anything to survive the ordeal.
18157	Stokes-Adams attack is caused by loss of cardiac output or blood flow to the brain, due to cardiac heart block, asystole, or ventricular fibrillation.
18158	Although the causes of many types of cancer aren't known, researchers have made progress in pinpointing factors that damage DNA in stomach cells and in understanding how that damage leads to cancer.
18159	The condition is usually contracted through consumption of contaminated food or water.
18160	Stomach lining inflammation may be a side effect of treatments and medications used to relieve a previous disease. Certain fungi and bacteria can also contribute to gastritis.
18161	Chronic mouth breathing due to plugged nasal airways can cause dryness of the mouth tissues, which in turn results to irritation. Drinking beverages that are too hot can burn the mouth, and can lead to irritation and pain. Diseases, such as herpetic infections (the common cold sore), gonorrhea, measles, leukemia, AIDS, and lack of vitamin C can appear with oral signs.
18162	The condition may be caused by various reasons such as menopause, psychological problems, nutritional deficiencies, and mouth disorders such as oral thrush and dry mouth. Some studies suggest that dysfunctional or damaged nerves may also be one of the causes.
18163	Most cases of strabismus in children are of unknown causes.
18164	Streptococcal bacteria are highly contagious and can spread through airborne droplets when someone with the infection coughs or sneezes. They also be picked up from a doorknob or other surface and transfer them to the nose or mouth.
18165	Infections are caused by Group B Streptococcus (GBS).
18166	Stretch marks are caused by skin stretching during pregnancy or when the person becomes fat or thin too fast. It is also caused by taking oral or topical corticosteroids, adrenal gland disease, or caused by a rare genetic disorders.
18167	Stretch marks are caused by skin stretching during pregnancy or when the person becomes fat or thin too fast. It is also caused by taking oral or topical corticosteroids, adrenal gland disease, or caused by a rare genetic disorders.
18168	Stroke is sometimes referred to as brain attack. For ischemic stroke it is caused by very little blood in the brain. For hemorrhagic stroke it is the total opposite wherein there is too much blood within the skull.
18169	This is caused by the parasitic nematode Strongyloides stercoralis.
18171	Sturge-Weber syndrom is the result of residual embryonal blood vessels and their secondary effects on surrounding brain tissue.
18172	Researchers say there is no exact cause of stuttering but it is observed that stuttering runs in the family so it may be genetic. Other possible causes are language development and signal difficulties.
18173	Usually the bacteria staphylococcus causes the infection. Poor hygiene also plays a role in the development of a sty. If expired cosmetics are used overnight it may also cause sty to appear. Unclean hands used to hold contact lenses and not thoroughly disinfecting it.
18175	Subdural hematoma occurs when veins between the brain and the outermost of three membrane layers that cover the brain -- rupture. The blood compresses the brain tissue resulting to a progressive decline in consciousness or even death.
18176	Subdural hematoma occurs when veins between the brain and the outermost of three membrane layers that cover the brain -- rupture. The blood compresses the brain tissue resulting to a progressive decline in consciousness or even death.
18177	Infertility may be due to one or both partners. Male infertility may be due to an abnormality in sperm production or function, impaired delivery of sperm, general health and lifestyle issues, and overexposure to some environmental elements. Female infertility may be due to a damaged or blocked fallopian tube, endometriosis, ovulation disorders, elevated prolactin, polycystic ovary syndrome, early menopause, benign uterine fibroids and pelvic adhesions. Other female infertility causes may also include medications, cancer and its treatment, and caffeine intake.
18178	SSADH deficiency is inherited from the parents as an autosomal recessive trait. In reces- sive disorders, the condition does not arise unless an individual inherits the same defective gene for the same trait from each parent.
18181	Causes of SADS in young individuals are long QT syndrome, Brugada syndrome, Catecholaminergic polymorphic ventricular tachycardia and hypertrophic cardiomyopathy and arrhythmogenic right ventricular dysplasia.
18182	Sudden cardiac arrest occurs as a result of certain anomalies in the heart's rhythm (a condition known as arrhythmia), which in turn indicates a malfunction in the electrical system of the heart. Predisposing heart conditions such as coronary heart disease, cardiomyopathy, and other illnesses may also trigger sudden cardiac arrest.
18183	Most of the cardiac arrests that lead to sudden death happen when the electrical impulses in the diseased heart become rapid (ventricular tachycardia) or chaotic (ventricular fibrillation) or both. This irregular heart rhythm (arrhythmia) causes the heart to abruptly stop beating.
18184	The exact causes for SIDS are still unknown; risk factors include exposure to cigarette smoke, use of illegal drugs during pregnancy, poor prenatal care and mothers who didn't practice breast-feeding. Insufficient oxygen is also suspected to be a cause of SIDS.
18185	The inflammation is brought about by injuries such as sprains, as well as frostbites. RSDS, when not treated, may lead to muscle wastage.
18187	Both the isolated sulfite oxidase deficiency and molybdenum cofactor deficiency are autosomal recessive traits. Two complementation groups are involved in the synthesis of molybdenum cofactor.
18188	Sun stroke is caused due to the depletion of the body's salts while under extreme heat. The regulation of body temperature can no longer be controlled by the central nervous system, thus the above mentioned reactions.
18189	Sunburn is caused by too much exposure to ultraviolet light.
18190	This condition may occur spontaneously or as a complication of medical or surgical interventions. Immobilization, AIDS (lupus anticoagulant), antithrombin III deficiency, blood type A, burns, chemotherapy, drug abuse (intravenous [IV] drugs), fractures, hemolytic anemias, and obesity may also be associated to this condition.
18191	The cause of PSP is not known. Most cases appear to be erratic.
18192	The inflammation is caused by repetitive strains in the shoulder due to overwork. This is a common symptom present
18194	In many cases a phobic fear of mice is a socially induced conditioned response, combined with the startle response (a response to an unexpected stimulus) common in many animals, including humans, rather than a real disorder.
18195	It is caused by the immune system attacking healthy tissue, and can result to mental disorders.
18196	The condition is caused by a problem in the swallowing process. It may also be due to some conditions such as esophageal dysphagia and oropharyngeal dysphagia. Infants of children with the condition may caused by problems in development to premature birth or low birth weight, nervous system disorders, or cleft lip or cleft palate. The condition may also have an unexplained cause.
18197	The cause of the sweaty sock syndrome is still unknown. Some theories suggest that alternating wet and dry conditions causes the condition. It is also linked to eczema or atopic dermatitis.
18198	A deficiency of the enzyme alpha galactosidase A leads to a glycolipid known as globotriaosylceramide (also abbreviated as Gb3, GL-3, or ceramide trihexoside) to accumulate within the blood vessels, other tissues, and organs.
18199	The cause of Sweet's syndrome is generally impossible to determine (idiopathic). But in some cases, it may be the body's immune system reacting to some bodily disorders.
18200	Swift disease is caused by immense exposure to mercury. Miners and workers that use mercury in their manufacturing firms are the ones greatly affected by the disease.
18201	Some causes of swimmer's ear include: persistent moisture in the ear from swimming, bathing or living in a humid environment; and exposure to an infectious organism from swimming in polluted water.
18202	The main cause of the infection is the parasite trematode which is parasitic schistosomes that utilize both vertebrates and snails as hosts in their life cycles. Most of the cases reported for swimmer's itch are caused by the parasites that utilize waterfowl as the vertebrate host. Though, within a matter of hours of infection in the human skin the parasite also dies.
18202	The condition is caused by the parasites migrating from snails to ducks, gulls, swans, muskrats, and beavers that return to the water through infected feces and eggs.
18203	The main cause of this disease is when a person gets into contact with fish and other water organisms that carry the bacteria.
18204	The most common cause of swollen lymph nodes is an infection, especially viral infections such as the common cold. However, there are other types of infection, including parasitic and bacterial, and other possible swollen lymph node causes, such as strep throat, mumps, measles, ear infections, infected tooth, mononucleosis, and wound infections.
18206	SC arises from childhood infection with Group A beta-hemolytic Streptococci and is reported to occur in 20-30% of patients with rheumatic fever (RF).
18207	It is said to be caused by a trauma in one of the eye.
18209	Some triggers of syncope are hunger, dehydration, nausea, bowel movement, urination, and stress.
18210	At about 16 weeks of gestation, apoptosis takes place and an enzyme dissolves the tissue between the fingers and toes, and the webbing fades away. In some fetuses, this process does not happen completely between all fingers or toes and some residual webbing remains. In some cases, this condition appears to be hereditary.
18211	Some common causes of SIADH include: head injury, cancers, infections, and drugs.
18212	When the body's tissues do not respond normally to insulin, insulin levels become elevated in the body's attempt to overcome the resistance to insulin. The elevated insulin levels result, directly or indirectly, to the other metabolic abnormalities seen in these patients.
18214	The cause of the condition is not known. But it is affected by a hereditary factor when it occurs with genetic syndromes such as Crouzon syndrome and Apert's syndrome.
18215	The cause of primary SOC is not known.
18216	Although synovial sarcoma does not have a clearly defined cause, genetic factors are believed to influence the occurence of this disease.
18217	Synovitis is a major problem in rheumatoid arthritis, in juvenile arthritis, in psoriatic arthritis, and in lupus. It may also be linked with rheumatic fever, tuberculosis, trauma, or gout.
18218	The bacterial organism that causes syphilis, Treponema pallidum, enters the body through minor cuts or abrasions in the skin or mucous membranes. The most common route of transmission is through contact with another infected person's sore during sexual activity.
18220	Rarely, the patient may have a family history of similar lesions. Syringomas may also rarely be associated with the Brooke-Spiegler syndrome, an autosomally dominant disease characterized by the development of multiple cylindromas, trichoepitheliomas, and occasional spiradenomas. Syringomas may be linked with Down syndrome.
18221	Trauma to the spinal cord or congenital developmental problems of the brain and/or spinal cord may cause SM to develop. Spinal cord trauma such as a car accident or serious fall may also manifest years later as SM. Congenital developmental problems, sometimes undetectable may lead to syringomyelia.
18222	There is no clear obvious cause for systemic sclerosis. Genetic predisposition appears to be limited: genetic concordance is small; still, there is usually a familial predisposition for autoimmune disease. Polymorphisms in COL1A2 and TGF-?1 may influence severity and progression of the disease.
18223	Primary carnitine deficiency is caused by a deficiency in the plasma membrane carnitine transporter, with urinary carnitine wasting resulting from systemic carnitine depletion.
18224	The precise reason for the abnormal autoimmunity that causes lupus is unknown. Inherited genes, viruses, ultraviolet light, and drugs may all be involved.
18225	This disorder is caused by the presence of too many mast cells (mastocytes) and CD34+ mast cell precursors in a person's body.
18226	Unlike most non-Hodgkin's lymphomas (which are typically B-cell related), CTCL is caused by a mutation of T cells. The malignant T cells in the body are pushed to the surface of the skin in a biological process used to rid the body of offending material, resulting to various lesions to appear on the skin. These lesions change shape as the disease progresses, usually beginning as what appears to be a rash and eventually forming plaques and tumors before metastatizing to other parts of the body.
18229	An increase in sympathetic nervous system stimulation can lead the heart rate to increase, both by the direct action of sympathetic nerve fibers on the heart and by causing the endocrine system to release hormones such as epinephrine (adrenaline), which have a similar effect. Increased sympathetic stimulation is generally due to physical or psychological stress (the so-called "fight or flight" response), but can also be induced by stimulants such as amphetamines.
18230	Tachypnea is said to be caused by the too much exercise and physical activities, lung diseases, heart diseases, anemia and anxiety.
18231	In humans, it is the ingestion of under-cooked beef (T. saginata) or pork (T. solium) containing the larval cysts that leads to taeniasis.
18232	Tailbone pain is caused by injuries such as a fractured bone, pilonidal cysts and sciatica.
18233	Takayasu arteritis is thought to be an autoimmune disease with no known cause. Genetic factors may be involved in the pathogenesis of Takayasu arteritis, with a possible major histocompatibility complex linkage.
18234	What primary causes Takayasu's arteritis still largely remains unknown. Some medical experts believe that an infection plays a role in the development of the disease. Another theory claims that this medical condition is an autoimmune disease, brought about by the malfunction in the immune system and attacking the arteries.
18236	There are different causes for clubfoot: It is not known what the exact cause of clubfoot may be, but it has been found frequently in individuals with Edwards' syndrome, a genetic defect with three copies of chromosome 18 genetic causes with incidence rates increasing significantly when multiple direct family members have the condition external influences such as intrauterine compression from oligohydramnios or from amniotic band syndrome. TEV may be linked with other birth defects such as spina bifida cystica. Ingestion of MDMA (Ecstasy) while pregnant has been linked with this congenital abnormality.
18238	Humans usually get infected with tapeworm through ingestion of the tapeworm eggs or larvae.
18239	The cause of TAR syndrome is not known.
18240	The cause of tardive dyskinesia seems to be related to damage to the system that uses and processes the neurotransmitter dopamine. The most compelling line of evidence postulates that tardive dyskinesia may result primarily from neuroleptic-induced dopamine supersensitivity in the nigrostrial pathway, with the D2 dopamine receptor being most affected.
18241	It is hard to determine the exact cause of Tarsal Tunnel Syndrome. Treatment and the potential outcome of the treatment may depend on its cause. Anything that creates pressure in the Tarsal Tunnel can lead to TTS. This would include benign tumors or cysts, inflammation of the tendon sheath, bone spurs, nerve ganglions, or swelling from a broken or sprained ankle.
18244	The disease arises when harmful quantities of a fatty acid derivative called a ganglioside accumulate in the nerve cells of the brain. Gangliosides are lipids, components of cellular membranes, and the ganglioside GM2, implicated in Tay-Sachs disease, is especially frequent in the nervous tissue of the brain
18245	The causes of the condition are not completely understood. However, doctors think that the abnormal alignment of the upper and lower teeth may contribute to the problem or changes that may have occurred during sleep cycles in some individuals. Adults with the condition may be affected by psychological factors such as anxiety, stress or tension, suppressed anger or frustration, and an aggressive, competitive, or hyperactive personality. Children with the condition may have growing and developing jaws and teeth. Other cases may be caused by another disorder or a side effect of some psychiatric medications.
18246	There is a high association with Sturge-Weber syndrome, a nevus formation in the skin provided by the trigeminal nerve and associated with glaucoma, meningeal angiomas, and mental retardation. Finally, spider telangiectasias are a radial array of tiny arterioles that commonly arise in pregnant women and in patients with hepatic cirrhosis and are associated with palmar erythema.
18247	The mechanism underlying the formation of vascular malformations is not wholly understood, but signalling of transforming growth factor-?1 is most likely to be involved.
18248	The condition occurs when the blood flow to the eyes or brain are impaired due to the swelling of the arteries. However, its specific cause is not known, but researchers think that there are genetic, viral, and environmental factors that play roles in the inflammation.
18249	Usually, a cause cannot be determined with certainty. LTLE is even less common. It can be hereditary, as in Autosomal Dominant Lateral Temporal Lobe Epilepsy (ADLTLE) with auditory or visual features, but can also be linked with tumors, meningitis, encephalitis, trauma, vascular malformations or congenital brain malformations. Again, in many affected persons it is common that no cause can be determined.
18250	The condition results from the abnormal synchornization of the brain cells' electrical activity. It may be a due to a traumatic injury, infections, lack of oxygen, blood vessel malformations in the brain, stroke, brain tumors, and genetic syndromes
18251	Trauma - microtrauma (internal like bruxism) and macrotrauma (external like punch to the jaw) Ostheoarthritis Rheumatoid arthritis
18252	Causes of the dysfunction may be due to trauma, bruxism and arthritis.
18253	Medications are the main precipitating cause of TEN.
18254	Tendinitis is usually caused by injury or overuse when working or playing. It may also be associated with inflammatory diseases such as rheumatoid arthritis.
18255	Playing tennis is one of the main causes of tennis elbow. However, other common arm motions may also cause the condition such as using a screwdriver, hammering, painting, raking, and weaving.
18256	The existence of teratomas has been recognized for centuries, during which time their origin was a something of speculation and debate. The parthenogenic theory, which suggests an origin from the primordial germ cells, is currently the most widely accepted.
18257	The exact cause of enteritis remains unknown.
18259	The exact cause of the condition is unknown but anything affecting the descending process may cause it. Hormonal abnormalities during gestation or an abnormally developed testis may possibly cause the condition. If one or both testicles are completely absent, the blood supply to the gonads may have been twisted during gestation.
18260	Almost all testicular cancers are starts in the germ cells that produce immature sperm. What makes the germ cells abnormal is not yet known.
18260	The exact cause of testicular cancer is currently not known. However, this type of carcinoma has been linked to factors that cause abnormalities in the germ cells, or the cells in the testicles that produce sperm.
18261	There is no apparent trigger that causes the condition, which may start after a physical activity, an injury to the scrotum, sexual arousal or activity, sexual arousal or reflexes during sleep, and exposure to cold weather.
18262	The condition is categorized as primary or secondary. Either category may be congenitally inherited or acquired later in life through an injury or an infection. Primary hypogonadism is primarily caused by Klinefelter 's syndrome, Undescended testicles, Mumps orchitis, Hemochromatosis, injury to the testicles, cancer treatment, and aging. Causes of secondary hypogonadism may include Kallmann syndrome, pituitary disorders, inflammatory disease, HIV/AIDS, medications, and obesity.
18263	Clostridium tetani, an obligate anaerobic gram-positive bacillus, causes tetanus to develop. This bacterium is nonencapsulated and forms spores, and they are resistant to heat, desiccation, and disinfectants.
18264	Tetany is said to be caused by deficiency or lack in calcium intake, under functioning of the parathyroid gland, low levels of carbon dioxide and excess of potassium intake.
18265	Often it is caused by tissue attachments that limit spinal cord movement within the spinal column. It can also be caused after spinal cord injury where in scar tissue can obstruct the flow of fluids in the region of the spinal cord. A condition known as syrigomyelia, fluid pressure causes cyst to form in the spinal cord can also contribute to this condition.
18266	It is caused by tissue attachments causing preventing movement of spinal cord within the spinal column.
18267	The known causes of this disease involve four defects in the heart. The condition starts if there were complications during fetal growth where in the abnormalities are ventricular septic defect, overriding aorta, right ventricular hyper trophy and pulmonary valve stenosis.
18268	The condition may be due to traumatic or nontraumatic injuries. A traumatic injury may be caused by a sudden and severe blow to the spine leading to the fracture, dislocation, or compression of one or more vertebrae. Nontraumatic injury may be due to disk degeneration, arthritis, cancer, blood vessel problems or bleeding, and inflammation or infections.
18270	Thalassemia is a genetically determined disease, and it tends to be found in individuals whose families come from the Mediterranean region, Africa, and sometimes Asia.
18271	Thalassemia is a genetically determined disease, and it tends to be found in individuals whose families come from the Mediterranean region, Africa, and sometimes Asia.
18272	Thalassemia is a genetically determined disease, and it tends to be found in individuals whose families come from the Mediterranean region, Africa, and sometimes Asia.
18273	Thallium poisoning is said to be caused by exposure, inhalation and / or ingestion of thallium which is considered as a very toxic chemical.
18274	Usually, people suffer from the fear of death because they are not ready for what comes after. The fear of that unknown eternity leads them to suffer from extreme anxiety, freezing them every time the subject comes up.
18275	It is said to be caused by not taking enough vitamin B-1 or through taking too much food that are anti-thiamine such as tea, coffee, and may be caused also by folate deficiency.
18276	Mainly, these disorders are produced by compression of the components of the brachial plexus (the large cluster of nerves that pass from the neck to the arm), the subclavian artery, or the subclavian vein. These subtypes are known as neurogenic TOS, arterial TOS, and venous TOS, respectively.
18277	Throat cancer is commonly associated with such risk factors as excessive tobacco use, excessive alcohol consumption, the presence of chronic acid reflux disease, as well as a family history of the disease.
18278	Glanzmann thrombasthenia is a genetic condition, while rare acquired forms caused by antibodies against GP IIb/IIIa have been described.
18279	The condition occurs when the arteries and veins in the arms and legs become inflamed blocking or reducing blood flow leading to insufficient supply of oxygen and needed nutrients. The trigger for the inflammation and clots however, is not clear.
18280	This arises from a deficiency of the glycoprotein IIb/IIIa complex. Platelets are not able to aggregate. The more severe type I arises from a complete absence of the glycoprotein IIb/IIIa complex, while in the milder type II, some of the glycoprotein IIb/IIIa complex is retained.
18281	Some causes include: vitamin B12 or folic acid deficiency; leukemia or myelodysplastic syndrome; decreased production of thrombopoietin by the liver in liver failure; sepsis, systemic viral or bacterial infection; dengue fever can cause thrombocytopenia by direct infection of bone marrow megakaryocytes as well as immunological shortened platelet survival; and hereditary syndromes.
18283	The condition is believed to be an autosomal recessive disorder.
18284	In most cases, the body's immune system is thought to lead to ITP. Normally the immune system helps the body fight off infections and diseases, but with ITP, thw immune system attacks and destroys its own platelets-for an unknown reason
18285	In many cases, the cause is not actually idiopathic but autoimmune, with antibodies against platelets being found in approximately 60% of patients. Typically, these antibodies are against platelet membrane glycoproteins IIb-IIIa or Ib-IX, and are of the IgG type.
18286	Primary causes include essential thrombocytosis (a form of myeloproliferative disease) and other myeloproliferative disorders such as chronic myelogenous leukemia, polycythemia vera, myelofibrosis.
18287	It may be acquired through the use of arterial catheters of CVS especially in the case of children, administraion of antiphospholipid antibodies, disseminated intravascular coagulation and as a risk factor of surgery and prolonged bedrest. It may also be inherited.
18288	Prolonged inactivity usually causes the condition. Sitting for long periods or bed rest after surgery may decrease blood flow through the veins and may cause a clot. Paralysis, some types of cancer, and use of the estrogen hormone may also lead to thrombophlebitis. An individual is at risk of developing the condition if he or she has an inherited tendency for blood clots.
18289	Thrombosis may be caused in one or more of the following which is referred to as the Virchow's triad: blood composition, vessel wall quality and blood flow. High altitude is also believed to provoke thrombosis.
18291	Candida yeasts are typically present in most people, but uncontrolled multiplication resulting in disease symptoms is kept in check by other naturally occurring microorganisms, e.g., bacteria co-existing with the yeasts in the same locations, and by the human immune system.
18293	Thymoma starts from the epithelial cell population in the thymus. Many subtypes are identified, some of which have a better- or worse-than-general prognosis
18294	It is said to be caused by mutations of gene in the thymus gland.
18295	It most often arises before age 20, but may be found in the older population as well.
18296	When DNA is damaged or altered, changes arise in these instructions. One result is that cells may begin to grow out of control and may form a tumor - a mass of malignant cells.
18297	Everyone is susceptible to thyroid cancer; however, the thyroid is especially sensitive to the effects of ionizing radiation. Exposure to ionizing radiation leads in a 30% risk for thyroid cancer.
18299	It is basically the attack of they thyroid and may also be a result of immune system defect. Antibodies that attack the thyroid are the most common cause of this disease and can also be caused by an attack of virus and bacteria.
18300	This condition is caused by preexisting central nerve disorders as well as diabetes.
18301	The condition may result due to aging. It may also be associated with multiple sclerosis or any similar disorder that causes damage to the myelin sheath that protects certain nerves. In rare cases, the condition may also be caused by a tumor that compresses the trigeminal nerve. Sometimes, the cause could not be found.
18302	Tick bites are caused by ticks that are ectoparasites that live by hematophagy on the blood of mammals, birds and rarely in reptiles and amphibians.
18303	Tick paralysis is thought to be due to toxins found in the tick's saliva that enter the bloodstream while the tick is feeding.
18304	TBE is caused by tick-borne encephalitis virus (TBEV), a member of the family Flaviviridae.
18305	It is the result of a mutation in chromosome 3, possibly in the microphthalmia-associated transcription factor.
18306	Costochondritis can be a result of cardiovascular and pulmonary illnesses; it can also be due to environmental factors such as extreme heat, ingestion of harmful chemicals, and cigarette smoking.
18307	It is caused by the fungi belonging to the genera Microsporum, trichophyton and epidermophyton that is commonly spread in moist conditions, usage of communal baths, immunocompromised states and genetic predisposition.
18308	Fungus causes tinea barbae.
18309	The condition is caused by mold-like fungi that attack the scalp skin's outer layer invading the hair shaft and causing it to break. If untreated, the condition is contagious and easily spreads through contact with infected persons. It may also spread through touching common items touched by an infected person or animal, or grooming or petting an infected animal.
18310	Fungus that has overgrown in the skin's pores causes tinea versicolor. The condition may also be triggered by other conditions such as hot, humid weather, excessive sweating, oily skin, hormonal changes, and when immunosuppression occurs.
18311	Tinnitus can have many different causes, but most commonly stems from otologic disorders - the same conditions that cause hearing loss. The most common cause is noise-induced hearing loss, due to exposure to excessive or loud noises. But tinnitus, together with sudden onset hearing loss, may have no obvious external cause. Ototoxic drugs can cause tinnitus either secondary to hearing loss or without hearing loss, and may raise the damage done by exposure to loud noise, even at doses that are not in themselves ototoxic
18312	Tiredness can be caused by strenuous activities paired with acute infections in the throat, chest or tooth, tonsillitis, glandular fever and tuberculosis.
18313	The cause of Todd's paresis is not known but there are two hypotheses to its cause. The first is the depletion theory, where the motor cortex is exhausted resulting to prolonged neuronal hyperpolarization. The second is that there is temporary inactivation of motor fibres caused by activation of NMDA receptors.
18315	The exact cause of THS is not known, but the disorder is thought to be, and often assumed to be, linked with inflammation of the areas behind the eyes (cavernous sinus and superior orbital fissure).
18316	The exact cause of tongue neoplasm is unknown, but several risk factors have been identified, such as smoking tobacco and drinking alcohol.
18317	An abnormal electrical brain activity causes the condition. Some cases may be triggered by other health problems such as kidney failure or an extremely low blood sugar. However, most cases result due to epilepsy.
18318	Group A streptococcal bacteria for bacterial tonsillitis Viruses such as Epstein-Barr virus may cause viral tonsillitis Maybe a result of aberrant immune responses to normal bacterial flora of the nasopharynx
18319	Tooth decay is caused by plaques and calculus on the teeth. These plaques contain bacteria that can eat up the tooth's enamel resulting to deterioration.
18320	Usually caused by problems in the jaw or tooth like cavities, gum disease, wisdom teeth emerges, cracked tooth, dental pulp is infected, disease in the jaw or tooth root is exposed.
18322	Aggressive pivoting or sudden stops and turns usually cause the knee to become twisted or rotated resulting in a torn meniscus. Kneeling, squatting, or lifting heavy loads sometimes leads to a torn meniscus. Degenerative changes of the knee in older adults may contribute to a torn meniscus.
18323	Birth trauma or intrauterine malposition is thought to cause damage to the sternocleidomastoid muscle in the neck. This leads in a shortening or excessive contraction of the sternocleidomastoid muscle, often with limited range of motion in both rotation and lateral bending. The head is then tilted in lateral bending toward the affected muscle and rotated toward the opposite side.
18326	The exact cause of Tourette's is not known, but it is well established that both genetic and environmental factors are involved
18327	TBS is an autosomal dominant multiple malformation disorder concerning the a mutation of the gene SALL1, which encodes a transcriptional repressor which interacts with TRF1/PIN2 and localizes to pericentromeric heterochromatin.
18328	The causes of the condition are yet to be determined. However, the condition may possibly be caused by insufficient blood flow to the uterus, damaged blood vessels, immune system problem, and poor diet.
18329	The condition is caused by constant exposure of the liver to toxic substances such as dry cleaning solvents and the amanita mushroom. Nonprescription pain-relievers as well as prescription drugs can also cause the condition. Some herbs that interact with prescription drugs may lead to more serious side effects.
18330	Researchers don't know exactly how tampons may lead to toxic shock syndrome. Some believe that when superabsorbent tampons are left in place for a long time, the tampons become a breeding ground for the bacteria.
18331	Some causes are: living with or raising dogs and cats; eating without hand washing; and infection from contact with soil.
18332	Eating infected meat or ingesting feces of a cat that has recently been infected may cause the disease among animals. Transmission from mother to fetus also causes the disease.
18333	If the mother is infected with toxoplasmosis, the fetus can also be infected. Or if the mother has a history of toxoplasmosis during her previous pregnancies, then the fetus may be infected.
18334	There is no known definite cause existing for congenital TEFs except that it's associated with trisomies 18, 21, and 13. Acquired TEF symptoms include iatrogenic injury, blunt chest, or neck trauma, prlonged mechanical ventilation via endotracheal or tracheostomy tube, and excessive tube cuff pressure in patients ventilated for lung disease.
18335	The disease is caused by the bacterium Chlamydia trachomatis and is spread by direct contact with eye, nosem and throat secretions from affected individuals. Contact with fomites (inanimate objects) such as towels and/or washcloths that have had similar contact with secretions can also spread the disease.
18337	Though the cause of TEC remains unknown, it has been suggested a Parvovirus infection B19 plays a role. There is also no apparent genetic links found in studies.
18338	It is still unclear which exact mechanism produces TGA. A current hypothesis says that it may be due to venous congestion of the brain that leads to ischemia of structures involved with memory, such as the hippocampus. The event may be triggered by performing a Valsalva maneuver in the context of several sudden events such as immersion in cold water, sexual activity, severe emotional stress and forceful exertion.
18339	The attack is mainly caused by a temporary decrease of blood supply to a part of the brain. Its underlying cause is the buildup of cholesterol-containing fatty deposits in an artery, which decreases the blood flow or may lead to clot development. A blood clot that moves from another part of the body to the brain also causes an attack.
18340	There are several risk factors identified with transitional cell carcinoma or TCC, however, there is no known exact cause. Among said factors are cigarette smoking, Balkan endemic nephropathy, analgesic abuse, chronic bacterial infection, and exposure to chemical, petrochemical, aniline dye, coal, coke, tar, and asphalt.
18342	Like most congenital heart diseases, the cause of TGA is unknown though there are factors associated with a higher than normal rate of the disease. Said factors include rubella or other viral illnesses of the mother during pregnancy, poor nutrition of the mother during pregnancy, alcoholism, mother's age over 40, and diabetes.
18343	The disease is presumably caused by viral infections or vaccinations and has also been associated with spinal cord injuries, immune reactions, schistosomiasis, and insufficient blood flow to the spinal cord vessels.
18344	The disorder is caused by excessive stimulation of the semicircular canals within the inner ears. This stimulus is then transmitted to the brain resulting to loss of coordination, balance and gait.
18345	The known causes of Travellers' Diarrhoea are bacterial enterotoxin, E. coli, shigella, campylobacter, salmonella and giardia.
18346	There is one known cause of Treacher Collins and that is a mutation in the TCOF1 gene, at chromosome 5-q32-q33.1. Called treacle, this protein coded gene has been hypothesized to assist in protein sorting during particular stages in embryonic development. The syndrome is also inherited in an autosomal-dominant pattern.
18347	Fifty percent of ET cases are found to be due to gene mutation and are transmitted dominantly. There is no identifiable and consistent structural abnormality found to exist in the nervous system of people with ET.
18348	Harmful bacteria grow out of control which causes infection in the gums. It is believed that enzymes being produced by the bacteria play a role in developing the trench mouth illness.
18348	The condition results from the growth of harmful bacteria resulting in a gum infection, which destroys and damages the delicate gum tissue surrounding and supporting the teeth.
18350	Treponema pallidum may be spread through sexual intercourse or transmitted from an infected pregnant mother to her fetus. In humans, Treponema pallidum is the primary cause of a highly infectious disease called syphilis.
18351	The consumption of undercooked meat that contains cysts of Trichinella spiralis can cause the disease. Wild animals, both carnivores and omnivores, should be considered possible sources if roundworm disease. When roundworms are inside in the body, they produce other worms that move through the gut wall and into the bloodstream.
18352	Eating undercooked meat that contains cysts of Trichinella spiralis can cause the disease. Wild animals, both carnivores and omnivores, should be considered possible sources if roundworm disease. When roundworms are present in the body, they produce other worms that move through the gut wall and into the bloodstream.
18353	The parasite Trichomonas vaginalis causes the disease and is only transmitted through penis-to-vagina intercourse or vulva-to-vulva contact with an infected partner. The parasite cannot survive in the mouth or rectum.
18354	Trichothiodystrophy is a hereditary disorder.
18355	The causes of this disorder are not completely understood but it is a type of compulsive behavior. As much as 4% of the population may be affected by Trichotillomania and women are four times more likely to be affected than men.
18356	As above-mentioned, the disease is caused by a missing or broken tricuspid valve. Therefore, there is no outlet for blood flow from the right ventricle to the right atrium, making the blood unable to enter the lungs where it is supposed to be oxygenated.
18357	No specific cause has been found but areas of brain swelling or abnormal blood vessels (arteriovenous malformations) may cause the disorder.
18358	Trigger finger is caused by the friction between the tendons and the tendon sheath. The tendons may not have fit properly in the tendon sheath causing the tissue to brush against the bone. This obstruction causes inflammation of the tendons in the affected area.
18359	The disorder may be caused by highly repetitive or forceful use of the finger and thumb. Certain medical conditions such as rheumatoid arthritis, gout or diabetes cause changes in tissues and may cause trigger finger/thumb. The condition may also be aggravated by prolonged, strenuous grasping such as when using power tools.
18360	According to studies, most cases appear to have been inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, meaning, both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations.
18361	The specific cause of the disease is not known though many authors have investigated the genetic basis. In 2000, Huebner and others said that they have mapped the syndrome to a 6 cM interval on human chromosome 12q13 near the type II keratin gene cluster.
18362	The disorder is not genetic but usually occurs as a quite random event during the formation of ovum and sperm. Called nondisjunction, this error during cell division can result in reproductive cells with additional chromosomes.
18363	The presence of an entire extra set of chromosomes cause this abnormality.
18364	The presence of an entire extra set of chromosomes cause this abnormality.
18365	In full trisomy, the non-disjunction of the cells when dividing to form an egg and sperm cell causes the abnormality. Partial trisomy meanwhile occurs when part of an extra chromosome is attached to one of the other chromosomes. A mosaic trisomy meanwhile happens when extra chromosomal material exists in only some of the organism's cells.
18366	Trisomy 21 syndrome is caused by the abnormal cell division of the 12st chromosome during the development of the sperm cell or the egg cell resulting in extra genetic material.
18367	Choriocarcinoma may be uncommon but it is usually curable. As a cancer that can be associated with pregnancy, it forms in the tissues that develop after a baby is conceived. Choriocarcinoma looks like the cells that normally surround a developing baby and approximately 50% of cases of those who have the disease had a hydatidiform mole (molar pregnancy). Almost one-fourth of choriocarcinomas occur after pregnancy has resulted in the delivery of a normal child. The rest of the cases occur after any type of abortion, ectopic pregnancy, or genital tumor.
18368	Trophoblastic tumor may be uncommon but it is usually curable. A cancer that can be associated with pregnancy, it forms in the tissues that develop after a baby is conceived. The tumor looks like the cells that normally surround a developing baby and approximately 50% of cases of those who have the disease had a hydatidiform mole (molar pregnancy). Almost one-fourth of said tumor occurs after pregnancy has resulted in the delivery of a normal child. The remaining cases occur after any type of abortion, ectopic pregnancy, or genital tumor.
18369	The cause of tropical sprue remains unknown but it may be caused by an infection. Residents or visitors to tropical regions are the ones generally affected. Risk factors therefore are living in the tropics and long periods of travel to tropical destinations.
18370	Trypanohobia, just like any other form of fear, is created by the unconscious mind as a protective mechanism. There was likely some point in an affected individual's past associated with needles that caused him/her emotional trauma. The condition may also be triggered by other events such as movies, TV, or seeing someone experience trauma.
18371	The protozoa of genus Trypanosoma that is transmitted through a bite of the fly called tsetse can cause the disease. Said fly is only found in Africa.
18372	The disease is caused by a parasite called Trypanosoma brucei gambiense and is also transmitted through bites.
18373	The infection may develop after inhaling droplets sprayed into the air through coughing or sneezing of an infected person.
18374	The disease is caused by the spread of Mycobacterium tuberculosis to the brain from another site of the body.
18375	The disease is caused mainly by Mycobacterium tuberculosis, a type of mycobacteria. There are other mycobacteria that may cause TB but they do not usually infect healthy adults.
18376	The disease is caused by mutations on either of two genes, TSC1 and TSC2. Said genes encode for the proteins hamartin and tuberin respectively and act as tumor growth suppressors or agents that regulate cell proliferation and differentiation.
18377	Tularemia can be contracted through direct contact with an infected animal or it carcass through a break in the skin, the bite of an infected tick, horsefly, or mosquito, and eating infected meat.
18378	The cause of Tularemia (deliberate disease) infections is an intracellular bacterium known as Francisella tularensis (or F. tularensis). This infectious organism is a small gram-negative non-motile form of coccobacillus. There are several subspecies of this bacterium, each with varying virulence. The most common carriers are ticks and deer flies, and in some cases, other arthropods.
18379	Tummy ache is caused by varying reasons: it can be due to indigestion or sudden reaction to certain foods, diarrhea, or spasms. More serious problems that involve tummy ache are appendicitis and gastroenteritis.
18380	Tungiasis is caused by an infestation with the burrowing flea T penetrans.
18381	The disease is inherited in an autosomal recessive manner with both parents carrying a Turcot gene and a 1 in 4 risk for each of their boys and girls of receiving both parental Turcot genes and suffering from the syndrome.
18382	For people with the disease, cells are missing all or part of an X chromosome and only occur among females. The female patient usually has only one X chromosome while others may have two but incomplete.
18383	The disease occurs in monozygotic, monochorionic twin pregnancies when an anastomosis between placental vasculature exists. The causes however remain unknown.
18384	The main cause of Tylenol liver failure is the overdose of the said drug. Children who take this drug to treat fever are the ones who are more prone to this kind of liver damage.
18385	The illness is caused by the bacterium Salmonella enterica serovar Typhi. The bacteria spread from the intestine via the bloodstream to the lymph nodes, live, and spleen following ingestion. Some people can become carriers of the bacterium and continue to shed the bacteria in their feces for years.
18386	There are 2 types of bacteria that may cause Typhus namely Rickettsia typhi and Rickettsia prowazekii. The bacteria determines the type of typhus a person has. The Rickettsia typhi bacteria cause murine or endemic typhus while Rickettsia prowazekii meanwhile causes epidemic typhus and Brill-Zinsser disease. The latter a mild form of epidemic typhus and occurs when the disease re-activates in a person who was previously infected. ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Treatment Any of the typhus types can be treated with antibiotics. Stabilizing the patient may need intravenous fluids and oxygen. The use of the antibiotic tetracycline during the early stage can lower the mortality rate, which is at 10-60%. Vaccines can help prevent the infection.
18387	The most severe form of the dirorder, Type I tyrosinemia is caused by a shortage of the enzyme fumarylacetoacetate hydrolase. A deficiency of the enzyme tyrosine aminotransferase on the hand causes Type II and can affect the eyes, skin, and mental development. Type III tyrosinemia meanwhile, is also a rare disorder caused by a deficiency of the enzyme 4-hydroxyphenylpyruvate dioxygenase.
18389	The disease is heterogenous and has been reported as an autosomal dominant, autosomal recessive, and x-linked recessive trait.
18390	Ulbright Hodes syndrome is a congenital disease and is believed to the an autosomal recessive pattern of inheritance.
18391	Most ulcers are usually caused by the corkscrew-shaped bacterium Helicobacter pylori. Other factors may also include regular use of pain relievers, smoking, excessive alcohol consumption, and stress.
18392	Most ulcers are usually caused by the corkscrew-shaped bacterium Helicobacter pylori. Other factors may also include regular use of pain relievers, smoking, excessive alcohol consumption, and stress.
18393	Pressure ulcers result from sustained pressure on the body particularly in immobile persons due to paralysis. Blood flow has been restricted in areas in which the skin and the underlying tissues have become trapped between bone and a surface such as a wheelchair or bed. This results in the deprivation of oxygen and other nutrients in the area causing irreversible damage and tissue death. The condition may also be caused by friction and shear.
18394	Most ulcers are usually caused by the corkscrew-shaped bacterium Helicobacter pylori. Other factors may also include regular use of pain relievers, smoking, excessive alcohol consumption, and stress.
18395	The cause of the disorder remains unknown. However, it is known that it may affect any age group though higher incidence have been found among people ages 15-30.
18396	Many cases are presumed to be the result of an inborn defect and and autosomal dominant pattern of inheritance has been suggested.
18400	It is indicated that the disease is an autosomal dominant form of inheritance, which means that the defective gene is located on an autosome, and one copy of the gene is sufficient to cause the disorder when inherited from an affected parent.
18401	It is said to be caused by an acute infection of the upper respiratory tracts. Group A Streptococcus in Streptococcal pharyngitis may are some of the bacteria that causes an acute pharyngitis which is also classified as an upper respiratory infection. It may also be caused by an infection of the ear.
18402	Treatment for Urachus cancer depends on what the cancer cells look like under the microscope as well as the size of the cancer and whether it has spread. Surgery however, is the main treatment to remove the cancer, which involves getting rid of a part or the entire bladder. Radiotherapy is also an option and may be performed after the surgery.
18405	Lack of particular enzyme in the urea cycle Maybe genetic
18406	Aside from renal failure, there are other factors that cause Uremia. A high protein diet, increased protein breakdown, gastrointestinal bleeding, and drugs can increase the production of uremia in the liver. Decreased blood flow through kidney and urinary outflow obstruction meanwhile can decrease the elimination of urea.
18407	It is said to be cause by cancer cells that usually cause by chronic irritation of the kidneys by smoking, analgesic nephropathy and exposure to chemicals.
18408	It is said to be caused by an inflammation or scar tissue as a result of a surgery, injury or a disease.
18409	The exact cause of urethral syndrome is not yet known though it is associated with the urethral stenosis and hormonal imbalance and reaction to certain foods, environment and chemicals.
18410	It is said to be caused adenovirus, chalmydia trachomatis, escherichia coli, herpes, mycoplasma genitalium, trichomonas and Neisseria gonorrhea.
18411	Urge incontinence results from an overactive bladder, which is due to a problem in the system of filling and emptying the bladder.
18412	This enzyme deficiency is inherited in an autosomal recessive trait in Holstein cattle and will cause death before birth.
18413	When the uterine contains too much of certain substances, kidney stones can be formed. Said substances can create small crystals that become stones.
18414	Temporary urine incontinence: intake of alcohol, over-hydration, dehydration, caffeine, bladder irritation, medications such as sedatives Medical conditions: urinary tract infection (UTI) and constipation Persistent urinary incontinence: pregnancy and childbirth, aging changes, hysterectomy, painful bladder syndrome, prostatitis, prostate is enlarged, prostate cancer, bladder cancer or bladder stones, neurological disorders and obstruction like a tumor in the urinary tract.
18415	Causes of Urinary incontinence in children includes slow physical development, excessive output of urine when sleeping, anxiety, genetics, obstructive sleep apnea, structural problems, an overactive bladder, infrequent Voiding, and other causes like constipation, drinks or foods containing caffeine
18416	Urinary retention can be caused by an obstructed urinary tract. It can also be caused by nerve problems interfering signals of the brain and bladder. Sometimes, weak bladder muscle also causes the condition. Other causes would include nerve disease, injury of the spinal cord, vaginal childbirth, infections of involving the brain and the spinal cord, diabetes, stroke, accidents injuring the brain and or the spinal cord, multiple sclerosis, heavy metal poisoning, trauma in the pelvic or injury, prostate enlargement, or benign prostatic hyperplasia, infection, surgery, medication like antihistamines and chlorpheniramine. cystocele and rectocele, constipation, urethral stricture
18417	The exact cause of the Urinary System Cancer is not yet known but it is associated with the exposure to chemicals and hormonal imbalance.
18418	Infection happens when bacteria get into the kidney or bladder and its number increase in the urine. For women, UTI can also be caused after having sexual intercourse.
18418	The primary cause of urinary tract infection is when the bacteria enters the urinary tract and may begin the multiply in the bladder. Typically, the urinary system contains agents that ward of infection However, there are certain factors that may increase the risk of infection such as through sexual intercourse and bacteria from the digestive tract.
18419	The amount of typical markers of renal function in the blood serum can be determined through a biochemical blood test. The procedure can also be sued to determine serum electrolytes. In determining the levels of tell-tale chemicals in the urine, a Full Ward Test may be done. Other options include urinalysis, urodynamic tests, ultrasound, and radiology.
18420	Medications, food dyes and certain food are the usual causes of discolored urine. Discolored urine may show up in kids when for instance, the dyes used in some sugary cereals and in some cases, certain health problems may cause changes in urine color.
18421	It is said to be caused by damage to the bladder, benign prostatic hypertrophy, prostate cancer and other pelvic diseases.
18422	The disease is genetic and has an autosomal recessive inheritance pattern. This means that the defective gene is located on an autosome, and two copies of the gene, one from each parent, are required in order to be born with the disorder. Though not affected by the disorder, both parents usually carry a copy of the defective gene.
18424	Urticaria is most commonly the body's reaction after it makes contact with allergens. In the case of food allergies, the disease is caused by consumption of dye, nuts, eggs, fish, nuts and acid derivatives. It could also be a result of intake of drugs such as sulphonylurea glimepiride, penicillin, aspirin, sulfonamides, clotrimazole, among others. Scratching one's skin, vibration, cold, heat, and emotional stress may also lead to the disease.
18425	Most Urticaria pigmentosa cases are caused by a point at amino acid 816 of the proto-oncogene c-kit, a transmembrane protein which, when bound to Mast Cell Growth Factor (MCGF), signals the cell to divide.
18426	The disease is caused by a defect in the CIAS1 gene, which creates the protein cryopyrin.
18427	Usher syndrome is inherited. Meaning, it is passed from parents to their children through genes. It is inherited as an autosomal recessive trait, which means that either mother or father can have the disorder and pass it on to their offspring.
18428	It can be caused by mutations in any one of several different genes namely CDH23, MYO7A, PCDH15, USH1C, and USH1G. Said genes function in the development and maintenance of the inner ear structures such as hair cells, which transmits sound and motion to the brain.
18429	Risk factors that may cause uterine cancer are age over 50 years old, obesity, menstruation at a young age, menopause later than normal, have not given birth, long-term use of medications that has hormone estrogen and tamoxifen drug intake.
18429	The exact cause of uterine cancer is currently not known; but certain factors have been known to play a role, including: fluctuating estrogen levels, hormonal anomalies, and genetic causes.
18430	Uterine fibroids are caused by a single cell which reproduces repeatedly and forms a pale, firm, rubbery mass distinctive from neighbouring tissue. Several factors that contribute in the development of uterine fibroids are genetic alterations, chemicals and hormones.
18430	Uterine fibroids are known to develop from muscular tissues or the uterus. Medical experts cannot pinpoint exactly the primary causes of this medical condition. However many researches as well as clinical experience have pointed to several underlying factors such as genetic alterations, hormones, and exposure to certain chemicals.
18431	The exact causes for uterine growths are still unknown.
18432	The primary causes of this condition is brought about by pregnancy as well as trauma incurred during childbirth, especially is the baby is unusually large as well as after a rather difficult delivery. Such cases cause serious strain on the muscles. Aging and genetics can also be a factor.
18433	Medical researchers still cannot provide a clear answer as to the cause of uterus didelphys. However, in most cases, this medical condition is often associated with abnormalities in the kinder and other factors that may influence the development of the tubes before birth.
18434	Countless conditions can lead to the development of uveitis. Among those are systemic diseases as well as syndromes confined to the eye. Unlike Uveitis, Anterior uveitis has no specific diagnosis. Anterior uveitis however is often one of the syndromes associated with HLA-B27.
18435	Anterior uveitis can occur because of trauma to the eye. Trauma may be a blow or foreign body penetrating the eye. The disease can also be a complication of other eye diseases. It may be associated with general health problems such as rheumatoid arthritis, rubella, and mumps. Majority of the cases though have no obvious underlying cause.
18436	Twenty five percent of posteriors Uveitis cases are idiopathic or do not have a cause. For the other cases, parasites, viruses, and fungi may cause the disease. There are also disease such as histoplasmosis and toxocariasis that are associated with the disease.
18437	There is no particular or specific genetic or chromosome problem identified with VACTERL association. It can be seen with some chromosomal defects such as Trisomy 18, which is more frequently seen in babies of diabetic mothers. Multiple factors however are most likely to cause VACTERL association.
18438	Vagabond's disease is caused by Phthirus pubis or crab louse and characterized by subcutaneous hemorrhages.
18439	It isn't clear what exactly causes vaginal cancer, but it is believed to result from certain genetic mutations that lead to the development of malignant growths in the squamous cells lining the surface of the vagina.
18439	Like all other forms of cancer, vagina cancer is caused by a genetic mutation that drastically turns the healthy cells into abnormal cells that tend to multiply rapidly. Early detection is very important to effectively manage and treat vagina cancer.
18440	Vaginal atrophy is primarily caused by a loss or dramatic decline of estrogen. Less circulating estrogen makes your vaginal tissues thinner, drier, less elastic and more fragile. Menopause is the most common cause of reduced estrogen levels that result in vaginal atrophy. Other causes include the surgical removal of the ovaries, and chemotheraphy.
18441	It is said to be caused by Candida Albicans that usually thrived to the vagina, mouth and digestive tract and on the skin.
18442	PID can be caused by sexually transmitted bacteria that usually come from an infected partner.
18443	There are a number of factors that can contribute to vaginal dryness. However, the main cause would be the significant decrease in the estrogen levels, a female hormone that is responsible for maintaining the vaginal lubrication. Other factors include menopause, childbirth, breast-feeding, cigarette smoking and other immune disorders. There are also some certain medications that may contribute to vaginal dryness such as certain cold and allergy medications as well as some antidepressant drugs.
18444	It is said to be cause by infection and injury to the pelvic region.
18445	The cause of vaginismus is a combination of physical and non-physical triggers. Physical triggers include medical conditions such as UTI, childbirth, temporary discomfort, pelvic trauma, abuse, and side effects of medications. Non-physical conditions include fears, anxiety or stress, partner issues, traumatic events, and childhood experiences. Sometimes no identifiable cause is known.
18446	General causes of vaginitis are: Normal balance of vaginal bacteria changes Infection Estrogen levels decrease after menopause For bacterial vaginitis: Good d bacteria is outnumbered by bad bacteria found in the vagina Having multiple sex partners Women who use douche or uses IUD for birth control are at risk For yeast infections: Overgrowth of microscopic fungus C. albicans which is the most common For trichomoniasis: Microspcopic one-celled parasite usually spread during sexual intercourse Non-infectious vaginits: Vaginal sprays, douches, perfumed soaps, scented detergents and spermicidal products that can irritate the skin surrounding the vagina which is delicate.
18446	There are a number of possible causes of vaginitis which also determines the type fo condition that person has. It can be a cause of overgrowth of several types of organisms that are present in the vagina, disrupting the natural balance. A yeast infection may also trigger vaginitis as well as certain medications and hormonal changes.
18447	The disorder is caused by a deficiency of the enzyme valine transminase. Said enzyme is needed in breaking down valine. The breakdown of valine has at least seven stages and a deficiency of the appropriate enzyme at any stage can cause a disorder of varying rarirty and severity.
18448	Valley fever is caused by the fungi Coccidioides immitis or Coccidioides posadasii mostly found in the desert soils of Southern Arizona, Northern Mexico and San Joaquin Valley in California.
18448	Valley fever is caused by the fungi Coccidioides immitis or Coccidioides posadasii. They thrive in the alkaline desert soils of southern Arizona, northern Mexico and California's San Joaquin Valley. The fungi are endemic to New Mexico, Texas and parts of Central and South Americas. Theses are areas with mild winters and arid summers.
18449	The syndrome is an autosomal dominant or sporadic inheritance caused by mutations of the IRF6 gene, located on chromosome 1 at 1q32-q41. Any change or alteration in a single gene on chromosome number one causes VWS. 95% of people who inherited said gene have some features of VWS. There are some though who do not show any features even if they inherited the gene.
18453	Toxoplasmosis and syphilis can be effectively treated with antibiotics but many of the TORCH infections have no effective treatment. Some of the viral infections can be prevented by vaccinating the mother prior to pregnancy. Delivery by caesarian section is also performed to prevent the newborn from contact if the mother has active herpes simplex.
18455	The Varicella-zoster virus is the primary underlying cause of chicken pox and shingles. The virus typically enters the lungs through inhalation and passes through the bloodstream.
18456	It is said to be caused by the defect or damage to the valves withing the veins that is located in the spermatic cord which results into backflow of blood leading to the damage of the testicular tissue.
18457	Blood is not properly circulated form the rest of the body to the heart. Wherein, to return blood to the body the legs must work against gravity. The valves in the veins may become weak as an individual grows old and loss its elasticity which causes the blood to flow backward instead of going towards the heart. So, blood pools in the veins and veins becomes enlarged which leads to varicose. Varicose veins appear blue because they have deoxygenated blood.
18457	Since the veins in the legs work against gravity in circulating blood, this causes it to stretch and weaken the valves. As the blood pools in the legs it causes the veins in the legs to enlarge. The veins may sometimes appear blue due to the fact that it contains deoxygenated blood. Pregnant women are among the most prone individuals for varicose veins.
18458	Variegate porphyria is caused by mutations in the PPOX gene, which makes a memnbrane bound enzyme called protoporphyrinogen oxidase. This enzyme is critical to the chemical process that leads to heme production. Activity of the enzyme is reduced among people with Variegate porphyria and in early life cases, there's no activity at all. The condition also arises from autosomal dominant inheritance of a gene mutation encoding a defective protoprophyrinogen oxidase enzyme protein.
18459	The variola is the virus that causes smallpox. This disease can be contracted by direct contact or transmitted through air and in the droplets of water. Like chicken pos, smallpox is highly contagious and can easily spread through use of contaminated products.
18460	Congenital bilateral aplasia of vas deferens is associated with cystic fibrosis and occurs because of a mutation in the CFTR gene. The mutation results in obstructive azoospermia in postpubretal males with cystic fibrosis. CAVD is also one of the most consistent features of cystic fibrosis as it affects 98-99% of individuals in the CF patient population. Acute or persistent respiratory symptoms in contrast are present in only 51% total CF patients.
18461	Vascular dementia is frequently caused by the narrowing or a complete blockage of one or more blood vessels in the brain. The risk of vascular dementia increases as the silent infractions increases. Other causes include very low blood pressure, blood vessel damage, and brain damage that cause hemorrhage.
18462	Vascular purpura occurs when alterations in the mechanical integrity of the blood vessels leads to bleeding, particularly under the skin.
18463	The cause of the condition is usually unknown. It sometimes occurs as an allergic reaction, for example, to medication. Vasculitis is also not a hereditary disease and it does not run in families. Hepatitis viruses and some bacteria causing infections may cause some types of Vasculitis.
18464	The disorder is usually due to a hypersensitivity reaction to a known drug, auto-antigens or infectious agents such as bacteria.
18465	Vasovagal Attack is said to be caused by an the over-activity of the vagus nerve. e condition is brought on by over-activity of the vagus nerve.
18466	Any type of fainting may be caused by a sudden drop in blood pressure, side effects os certain medications, hyperventilation, drug or alcohol use, and low blood sugar.
18467	There is no specific genetic or chromosome problem has been said to be linked with Vacterl Association but it can be seen more with person having some chromosomal defects such as Trisonomy 18 and occurring more frequently in babies with diabetic mothers.
18468	The syndrome is often said to be caused by the genetic deletion found on the long arm of the chromosome 22. This syndrome causes the defect occurring of the neural-chest derive tissues which certainly affects the development of the third and the fourth Branchial pouches or the pharyngeal pouches.
18469	It is caused by the impairment of the velopharyngeal mechanism of the person whereby the velopharyngeal valve does not fully close. It can either be congenital or acquired later in life. Cleft palate, one of the most causes of this condition, for example is an anatomical abnormality that occurs in the utero and id present at birth.
18470	Like any other types of warts that grow on the skin, the venereal warts are caused by a virus that infects the uppermost layers of the skin. This condition is contagious and can spread from one person to another sexual contact.
18472	Idiopathic Ventricular Fibrillation is an autosomal inherited trait caused by heterozygous mutation in cardiac sodium channel gene SCN5A.
18474	It is often attributed to the higher systolic pressure of the left ventricle which causes leakage of blood into the right ventricle elevating its pressure and volume which in turn cause pulmonary hypertension, an associated symptom of the VSD.
18475	Vernal keratoconjunctivitis usually considered to be due to allergens
18476	Veruccas are a side effect of treating HPV infection. And since the plantar is exposed to various environmental substances due to walking, other bacteria may cause aggravation to the warts and make them multiply.
18477	VUR is said to be caused by the short or absence of intravesical ureter and detrusor backing, abnormal ureteral orifice, UTI, obstruction in the bladder, instability of the detrusor and parauretral diverticulum.
18478	It is said to be caused by a viral infection of the vestibular nerve.
18479	Vibrio species themselves are the cause of infections relating to the vibrio such as vibrio cholera infections and noncholera vibrio infections that are usually caused by eating raw seafoods like oyster, mussels and prawns.
18480	It is caused by consuming raw shellfish especially oysters and exposing open wound to sea water.
18481	It is said to be caused by eating seafood and by exposing open wounds in the contaminated water.
18482	It is said to be caused by infection of Borrelia vincentii which is a gram-negative spirochaete, and Fusobacterium spp which is Gram-negative anaerobes.
18483	The mouth is naturally teeming with organisms. This includes viruses, fungi, and bacteria. In the case of a Vincent's stomatitis, the harmful bacteria go out of hand and proliferate in number.
18485	VIPoma is commonly caused by non- islet-cell tumors.
18486	It is said to be caused by the inflammation of the lining of the large intestine as a result of a viral infection.
18487	Viral exanthem is caused by respiratory and stomach viruses.
18488	Drinking contaminated water, eating contaminated food, sharing utensils or other personal belongings that are contaminated are the usual cause of viral gastroenteritis. Viruses that cause viral gastroenteritis are rotavirus and noroviruses.
18488	Drinking contaminated water, eating contaminated food, sharing utensils or other personal belongings that are contaminated are the usual cause of viral gastroenteritis. Viruses that cause viral gastroenteritis are rotavirus and noroviruses.
18488	It is said to be caused by eating or drinking contaminated food and water or sharing kitchen utensils from a person that is infected. Among the virus that cause the illness are the rotavirus and norovirus.
18489	Some viruses that cause hemorrhagic fever are highly contagious and rapidly spread from one person to the other. Transmission can be due to close contact to an infected person,, including contact to body fluids and use of contaminated needles and syringes.
18490	It is often said to be caused from varying mechanisms of pathogenesis. Such theory is often called the "anti-body dependent enhancement.
18491	It is said to be caused by viruses such as the cytomegalovirus.
18492	It is said to be caused by microorganism such as the Neisseria Meningitis and Streptococcus Pneumoniae.
18494	Major cause is poor diet where in there are few animal sources of pre-formed Vitamin A. Breast milk of mothers that lacks Vitamin A will also cause a lack of Vitamin A in a child. Other causes are iron deficiency, alcohol intake and liver that is stressed.
18494	It is said to be caused by the less intake of vitamin A.
18495	Vitamin A Overdose is caused by consuming too much Vitamin A supplements.
18496	It is commonly caused by decrease intake, malabsorption, alcoholism, liver cirrhosis or by intake of medications with isoniazid, hydrolazine and pencillamine, it may also be brought about by dialysis procedure.
18497	Vitamin B deficiency is said to be caused by less intake of vitamin B, impaired absorption of vitamin B , and even diabetes.
18498	Vitamin B12 is due to the lack of intrinsic factor which is a substance made by cells in the stomach that makes it possible to absorb Vitamin B12. The reason for the lack of intrinsic factor is unknown which maybe an autoimmune reaction, a genetic factor, or both.
18499	Vitamin C Deficiency is said to be caused by not eating fruits and vegetables that are rich in vitamin C..
18500	It is said to be caused by the failure of the person to consume enough vitamin D and the person's failure to expose himself to sunshine.
18501	It is said to be cause by over consumption of Vitamin D.
18502	The cause of Vitamin D Resistant Rickets is often linked to the defect of the renal tubular mechanisms. It is also said to be an inherited condition.
18504	The condition is said to be cause by the interference of the body's absorption of vitamin e which largely depends on the person's normal pancreatic biliary function, biliary secretion, micelle formation and formation and penetration across intestinal membranes. It may also be caused by rare genetic abnormalities in the alpha-tocopherol transfer protein and to those who infants that are born prematurely.
18505	It is said to be caused by mutations in the gene for a-tocopherol transfer protein. It may also be an inherited condition or a result of a poor diet. In infants, it usually results from consuming formulas high in polyunsaturated fatty acids that are fortified with iron but not vitamin E.
18506	It is caused by over consumption of Vitamin E.
18507	It is said to be caused by the low consumption of Vitamin D.
18508	Vitiligo is said to be an acquired condition. Its cause is unknown but there are those who considered autoimmunity as a probable cause.
18509	It is a rare cause of bilateral granulomatous posterior or Panueitis.
18510	Very long-chain acyl-coenzyme A dehydrogenase deficiency or VLCAD is said to be caused by myopathy and cardiomyopathy (Hoffman,G. (2001). Inherited Metabolic Disease, p.256).
18511	Vocal cord paralysis is caused by the interruption of the nerve impulses. Factors that may contribute to this condition include an injury to the vocal cords during a surgical procedure, a chest or neck injury, stroke, tumors and inflammation of the vocal cords.
18512	Von Gierke's Disease is a genetic disease which is said to result from the deficiency of the enzyme glucose-6-phosphatase (Kremer, Broelsh, D., et.al. (1994) Atlas of Liver, Pancreas and Kidney Transplantation, Thieme, p. 151).
18513	It is a genetic or inherited disease caused by the mutation of the Von Hippel-Lindau Suppressor or the VHL gene on the short arm of chromosome 3.
18514	It is a genetic disorder which is often inherited. It is said to be caused by the mutation of a gene on the long arm of chromosome 17 which is responsible for encoding a protein called neurofibromin which plays a vital role in intracellular signaling.
18515	It is commonly caused by an alteration that adversely affects the person's platelets functioning as well as clotting (Fleisher,G. (2002). Synopsis of Pediatric Emergency Medicine, Lippincott Williams and Wilkins, p. 213).
18517	Vulvar cancer has no specific cause, but it has been associated with mutations or defects of the p53 tumor suppressor gene, which plays a role in preventing cells from becoming cancerous. In addition, women with vulvar cancer often have lichen sclerosus, or a condition in which the vulvar skin becomes thin and itchy. Other risk factors include smoking and precancerous skin conditions.
18518	Vulvitis is said to be caused by eczema, infections by bacteria, fungi or viruses, allergic reactions and dermatitis.
18519	Vulvodyna's origin is still unknown but possible causes of the disease are linked to trauma, allergy to chemicals or organisms, to an autoimmune disorder , chronic tension or spasm of the muscle of the vulvar area, infection, injury and neuropathy.
18520	Vulvovaginitis is often said to be caused by infections, hormones especially in postmenstrual or postpartum woman, irritation or allergy in condoms,spermicides, soaps, perfumes, douches and lubricants or may even be caused by foreign bodies like tampons or condoms. Diabetes and STD are also said to cause the condition (Rodgers CA, Beardall AJ: Recurrent vulvovaginal candidiasis: Why does it occur? Int J STD AIDS 10:435; quiz 440, 1999).
18521	Waardenburg Syndrome is an inherited medical condition. It is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern where one copy of the altered gene is sufficient to cause the disorder. Usually, it occur in person with a parent with the condition. Most often, the parent of a child who is considered a carrier of the autosomal recessive disorder is not affected (Arias S (1971). "Genetic heterogeneity in the Waardenburg syndrome". Birth Defects Orig. Artic. Ser. 07 (4): 87-101).
18522	Generally, it is an inherited disorder through an autosomal dominant pattern where only one copy of the altered gene is needed to cause the disorder. However, there are types of this syndrome where it is inherited as an autosomal recessive pattern whereby two copies of the altered gene is needed to cause the disorder.
18529	Wagner's Disease is a disorder that is inherited or autosomal dominant and involves central liquefaction of the vitreous body (Lang, G. and Amann, J. (2000) Opthalmology: A Short Textbook, p. 293).
18530	It is primarily a genetic disorder which is hereditary. It is caused by the mutations in the COL11A1, COL11A2 and COL2A1 genes which are involved in the production of type II and type XI collagen. The defective collagen molecules affect the development of the bones and other connective tissues (Liberfarb RM, Levy HP, Rose PS, Wilkin DJ, Davis J, Balog JZ, Griffith AJ, Szymko-Bennett YM, Johnston JJ, Francomano CA, Tsilou E, Rubin BI (2003). "The Stickler syndrome: genotype/phenotype correlation in 10 families with Stickler syndrome resulting from seven mutations in the type II collagen gene locus COL2A1". Genet Med 5 (1): 21-7).
18531	WAGR Syndrome is said to be caused by the mutation on the 11th chromosome in the 11p13 region, includign the PAX6 ocular development gene and the Wilms tumor gene. Mutations in the PAX6 gene have recently been shown to not only cause abnormalities but also problems in the brain and pancreas (Yasuda T, Kajimoto Y, Fujitani Y, Watada H, Yamamoto S, Watarai T, Umayahara Y, Matsuhisa M, Gorogawa S, Kuwayama Y, Tano Y, Yamasaki Y, Hori M (2002). "PAX6 mutation as a genetic factor common to aniridia and glucose intolerance". Diabetes 51 (1): 224-30).
18532	The origin of Waldenstrm macroglobulinemia is not yet known but it has been associated with the locus 6p21.3 on chromosome 6 (Schop RF, Van Wier SA, Xu R, et al (2006). "6q deletion discriminates Waldenstrm macroglobulinemia from IgM monoclonal gammopathy of undetermined significance". Cancer Genet. Cytogenet. 169 (2): 150-3).
18533	Wallerian Degeneration usually is cause or occurs after axonal injury in both the peripheral nervous system and the central nervous system.
18534	Wallis Zieff Goldblatt syndrome is an inherited disorder which has an autosomal dominant pattern of inheritance.
18535	The wandering spleen is said to be caused by the loss or weakening of the ligaments which are responsible in holding the spleen.
18536	It is said to be caused by chromosome aberrations.
18537	Warts are said to be caused by a viral infection particularly the human papillomavirus or the HPV and are usually contagious when in contact with the skin of another person. It is also said that warts may be passed and be acquired from using towels or other objects used to rub the body.
18538	This condition is often brought about by the accumulation of fluid in the knee area. Factors include a ligament tear, meniscus ter, overuse injuries and broken or fractured bones. Trauma to the affected area can also cause the fluid to accumulate.
18539	There are possible medications that cause water intoxification which are concentraid, DDVAP, desmopressin, minirin, octostim and stimate. Combination of certain drugs, medications and substances or toxins may cause a reaction that leads to water intoxication.
18540	Waterhouse-Friderichsen syndrome is usually caused by Streptococcus pneumoniae infections and usually a common bacterial pathogen which are usually linked with meningitis in the adult and elderly population..
18541	Watermelon Stomach or the Gastric antral vascular ectasia, is said to be cause of chronic gastrointestinal bleeding or iron deficiency anemia.
18543	Weber Sturge syndrome is said to be caused by an arteriovenous malformation that usually happen in the cerebrum of the brain on the same side where the symptoms are seen to wit, the presence of the the birthmarks (W. A. Sturge. A case of partial epilepsy, apparently due to a lesion of one of the vasomotor centres of the brain. Transactions of the Clinical Society of London, 1879, 12: 162).
18544	The cause of the Weber-Christian disease is unknown.
18545	Wegener's granulomatosis origin is not that known but it is said to be caused by an infectious agent. Also, it is said that it is a result of an overactive immune system response to an allergic reaction.
18546	Weil Syndrome is said to be caused by Leptospira spp., a spirochaete bacteria which said to cause diseases like (Icterohaemorrhagiae, canicola, pomona, grippotyphosa, and bratislava). Heuter, Kerry J.,Langston, Cathy E. (2003). "Leptospirosis: A re-emerging zoonotic disease". The Veterinary Clinics of North America 33: 791-807). It is transmitted by a contaminated water which has urine of contaminated animal that may come in contact with a broken skin.
18547	The usual cause of infection is mud or water that is contaminated with an infected rat's urine or any other farm animals that are also infected. The usually route of the infection is through the membranes of the eyes, mouth and nose.
18547	Weil's disease is an infection caused by the Leptospira ictero-haemorrhagiae organism, which is transmitted to humans from rats. Approximately 50 to 60% of rats are carriers of Leptospira ictero-haemorrhagiae. This infectious organism is usually excreted through their urine. The disease is commonly spread through exposure to sewage systems, contaminated water, and unsanitary sites. Leptospira ictero-haemorrhagiae typically invades the body through breaks in the skin such as blisters, abrasions, and cuts, or through the lining of the throat, nose, or alimentary tract.
18548	Weissenbacher Zweymuller Syndrome is said to be linked to mutation in the COL11A2 gene which is located on chromosomal position 6p21.3 which is said to be a code for a2 strand of Collagen trype XI (Pihlajamaa T, Prockop DJ, Faber J, et al (1998). "Heterozygous glycine substitution in the COL11A2 gene in the original patient with the Weissenbacher-Zweymller syndrome demonstrates its identity with heterozygous OSMED (nonocular Stickler syndrome)". Am. J. Med. Genet. 80 (2): 115-20).
18549	Werdnig-Hoffman disease is an inherited autosomal condition.
18550	It is hereditary genetic disorder which may pass from birth by parent who has the condition.It is a rare gene defect which usually affects the gene found on chromosome 8.
18551	It is said to be caused by long term alcohol consumption, self-imposed starvation and malnutrition.
18552	Wernickle-Korsakoff syndrome is caused by the lack of vitamin B12 that functions to make one's memory work effectively. In some cases this disease can be fatal.
18553	This form of encephalitis is caused by the West Nile virus, a flavivirus common in tropical countries such as some parts of Africa and East Asia. The virus is transmitted by mosquito bites.
18554	It is said to be caused by a virus that is transmitted through mosquito vectors which usually infect birds, horses and humans.
18555	It is said that the syndrome is caused a brain dysfunction which may be prenatal perinatal or that which is caused during birth or even postnatal. Specifically, is linked to the malfunctioning of the neurotransmitter of the brain or the hyper-production of the Corticotropin releasing hormone or the CRH.
18556	It is caused by the western equine encephalitis virus which is an arthropod-borne virus or Arbovirus for brevity.
18557	It is caused by mutations in the dihydropyridine receptor calcium channel encode at chromosome 1q31-q32 (261, 262) (Miller,N.,Burton,F, et al. (2005). Walso and Hoyt's Clinical Neuro-Opthalmology, Lippincott Williams and Wilkins, p.1104). It is an inherited disorder.
18559	All known food allergies is caused by a malfunction of the body's immune system, as it identified certain food products are threats to the body. This triggers the allergic reaction and the production of antibodies that signals the body to release histamines and other chemicals to fight allergy.
18560	Like any other allergy it may be caused by exposure and contact to the source either to through consumption or inhalation of seeds and dust particles of wheat as in the case of occupational disease..
18561	Whiplash usually happens when abrupt force forces your head to move backward and forward. Automobile accidents Amusement park rides Collisions during contact sports Being punched or shaken
18561	The primary cause whiplash is the straining of the ligaments and neck muscles. This can be brought about by auto accidents, amusement park rides, collisions and trauma to the neck.
18562	Whipple disease is a disease that is caused by the bacteria Tropheryma whipple (Puchal X (2002). "Whipple's disease". Joint Bone Spine 69 (2): 133-40).
18563	Infections brought about by the whipworm is said to be caused by accidental ingestion of eggs that usually hatch in the small intestines.
18564	White Sponge Nevus is caused by a mutation of the keratin 4 and keratin 13 genes (Kahn, Michael A. Basic Oral and Maxillofacial Pathology. Volume 1. 2001).
18565	The primary cause of whiteheads is bad and unhealthy diet, oily, skin and genes.
18566	Whitemore disease is caused by the bacteria Burkhoideria pseudomallei. The bacterial strain is acquired through dust particles that enter open wounds as well as the nails. It can also be cultured and be used as a means for biological warfare.
18567	It is said to be caused by exposure to herpes simplex virus.
18568	Whooping cough is identified to be a result of a respiratory infection that affects the windpipe and the tubes that branches off from the windpipe. The bacteria are known as the Bordetella pertussis bacterium, typically transmitted through some droplets passed on from coughing or sneezing into the air by an infected person.
18569	Whooping Cough is said to be caused by the bacteria named Bordetella Pertussis.
18570	Von Willebrand disease is an inherited disease..
18571	Acquired Willebrand occurs usually in patients with autoantibodies, to person with aortic valve stenosis.
18572	It is said to be caused by the deletion of the genetic material from the region q11.23 of the 7th Chromosome.
18573	Wilms tumor-aniridia syndrome is said to be caused by the mutation on the 11th chromosome in the 11p13 region, includign the PAX6 ocular development gene and the Wilms tumor gene. Mutations in the PAX6 gene have recently been shown to not only cause abnormalities but also problems in the brain and pancreas (Yasuda T, Kajimoto Y, Fujitani Y, Watada H, Yamamoto S, Watarai T, Umayahara Y, Matsuhisa M, Gorogawa S, Kuwayama Y, Tano Y, Yamasaki Y, Hori M (2002). "PAX6 mutation as a genetic factor common to aniridia and glucose intolerance". Diabetes 51 (1): 224-30).
18574	Usually Willm's tumor is linked or said to be cause by genetic conditions and is often said to be inherited while some theory says that it is caused by defects in birth.
18575	The disease is said to be caused by the mutations in the ATP7B gene which is usually pass to the child.
18576	A winged scapula may be caused by injuries in the shoulders, damage to the trapezius muscle, or impingement of the thoracic nerve.
18577	The Norwalk virus can be contracted in closed communities, such as bathrooms of hospitals. A person can get the virus by handling contaminated equipment such faucets and flush valves in toilets.
18578	It is said to be inherited immune disorder caused by mutations in a gene that primarily affects the immune system.
18579	Wolf-Hirshhorn syndrome is said to be caused by a partial deletion of the short arm of the 4th chromosome especially in the region of WHSC1 and WHSC2 .
18580	It is said that Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome is inherited condition.
18581	It is said to be caused by the malfunction of the mitochondria and of the myelination which is similar to multiple sclerosis. It is an autosomal recessive or dominant or mitochondrial inherited medical condition. Usually it is caused by the mutation in the gene that is said to be responsible for the production of wolframin, a protein, that results in the loss of its function.
18582	It is an inherited disorder that is marked by accumulation of the cholesteryl esters which are normally used for the transport of cholesterol and triglycerides.
18583	The exact causes of the cancer are unknown, but risk factors meanwhile include obesity, exposure to harmful substances, use of contraceptives and hormonal disorders.
18584	It is a mental condition that is inherited from the parent to child.
18585	It is a genetic disorder that is inherited from the parent to the child.
18586	Worms live in unsanitary surroundings. They enter the human body through ingestion of contaminated water as well as open wounds in the limbs or feet.
18587	This infestation is caused by threadworms. They are long, white, narrow-shaped worms that enter the body through ingestion and doing activities in unsanitary areas.
18588	It is said that Worster-Drought syndrome is due to the abnormality in the area of the brain that is responsible for the movement of the muscles around the mouth and throat. It is said to occur during the first trimester of the pregnancy (Clark, M., (2000) Worster Drought Syndrome, Institute of Child Health and Great Ormond Street Hospital).
18589	There are a number of factors that cause the formation of wrinkles. This primarily includes the natural aging process that causes the skin to thin and lose its elasticity. Another factor is the exposure of the skin to UV light that is known to speed up the aging process. Smoking can also be a contributing factor as well ass repeated facial expressions that led to the development of fine lines.
18590	It is said to be caused of an excessive fine motor activity complicated by a tense or inappropriate writing technique (Sataloff, Robert Thayer, Alice G. Brandfonbrener, and Richard J. Lederman, eds. 'Textbook of Performing Arts Medicine'. New York: Raven Press, 1991. (p. 197).
18592	It is caused by the mutation in the X-chromosome of a gene. It is said to be an inherited or genetic disease of the immune system.
18595	X-linked ichthyosis is caused by the deficiency of an sulfatase which is an enzyme that is found in the body and are most important and necessary to the skin.
18596	It is said to be caused by the mutation of the FMR1 gene on the chromosome X.
18598	Palpebrarum is caused by the accumulation of fats or lipids in the reticuloendothelial cells.
18599	Xanthine oxydase deficiency is said to be an inherited deficiency.
18600	Xanthinuria or the Xanthine oxydase deficiency is said to be an inherited deficiency.
18601	Xanthomas is said to be caused by high blood lipids, diabetes, some type of cancers and inherited metabolic disorders.
18602	It is caused by a mutation in a gene called CYP27A1 which is said to be responsible for the production of an enzyme named as sterol 27-hydroxylase which in turn is responsible for turning cholesterol into bile acids which are important in the absorption of fats in the intestine. It is however said that it is an inherited disorder associated.
18603	Xeroderma pigmentosum is said to be an inherited disorder. It is an autosomal recessive pattern of inheritance whereby two copies of the altered gene are needed in order to cause the disorder. It is most commonly a defect resulting the reduction or even elimination of the nucleotide excision repair or the NER.
18611	Xerophthalmia may be due to hyposecretive causes such as the idiopathy, it may also be age-related, hormonal or due to the use of oral contraceptives, antihistamines, vitamin A deficiency, neurological lesions and absence of lacrimal glands or ductules or it may be a caused by deficiency of oil component of tear filmand defective corneal resurfacing.
18614	It is said to be caused by the mutation of different Y-chromosome, especially its deletion. This condition is said to be inherited.
18615	Yaws is said to be caused by the caused by the spirochete bacterium name as Treponema Pertenue.
18616	External use of irritants like douches or internal disturbances can trouble the normal flora that comprises lactic acid bacteria and an increases growth of yeast found in the body leads to evident symptoms. Some causes of the yeast infection are pregnancy, use of oral contraceptives, engaging in sexual intercourse immediately and without cleansing after anal sex and use of lubricants that has glycerine. Weakened immune system or metabolic condition like diabetes also can cause yeast infection. Other conditions/illness related to yeast infection is HIV/AIDS, mononucleosis, cancer treatments, steroids, stress and nutrient deficiency. The common cause of yeast overgrowth are the use of antibiotics and steroids.
18617	Yellow Fever is said to be caused by an an arbovirus belonging to the family of Flaviviridae which is a gram positive single stranded RNA virus. Depositions of viral particles in the skin by a n anthrophod saliva causes the human infection.
18618	The exact cause of the yellow nail syndrome is not yet known though it is usually associated with patients with bronchiectasis, kidney disease, liver disease, thyroid disease and soriasis. It may even be caused by ingestion of arsenic poison or by an injury where there is crushing if the base of the nail and where the nail is exposed to nail polish for a long time.
18619	Yersinia is spread through its natural carriers, rodents and some mammals. The bacterium usually infiltrates the blood, and may affect multiple organs including the brain and the spleen. In some cases, the organism can be contracted from direct aerosol infection. It may also be spread through the ingestion of contaminated food products.
18620	It is said to be caused by several species of rodents. Marmots are reservoir species in the steppes.
18623	It is usually cause by a malignant endodermal cells which express alpha-fetoprotein.
18625	Studies suggest that affected individuals had contact with mercury, which caused the symptoms.
18626	Yunis-Varon syndrome is genetically inherited.
18627	In January 1968, the Kanemi Company in Kyushu, Japan produced rice bran oil, which was contaminated with polychlorinated biphenyls and polychlorinated dibenzofurans. The contaminated product was sold to poultry farmers to be used as a feed supplement. It was also sold to consumers for cooking. However, farmers reported that their poultry have difficulty breathing and dying after being fed with the contaminated rice bran oil.
18629	The deficiency is due to a lack of CD8+ T cells and the presence of circulating CD4+ T cells that are unresponsive to T-cell receptor-mediated stimuli.
18630	The condition is believed to be genetically inherited, which is attributed to consanguinuity as affecting the chances of its inheritance. Although there is a hypothesis that symptoms are found in a particular gene, the gene that affects the condition is not yet known. However, a different genetic cause is believed to have caused mental retardation.
18631	An abnormality in one of the several genes involved with peroxisome biogenesis causes a person's inability to beta-oxidize very-long chain fatty acids in the peroxisomes of the cell resulting in Zellweger syndrome. PEX1, PEX2, PEX3, PEX5, PEX6, PEX12, PEX14, and PEX26 are some of the peroxins associated with the syndrome.
18632	A parent who had the abnormal gene may pass on the disorder to his or her offspring.
18633	It is said to be cause by the decrease or inadequate intake of zinc, or loss of zinc in the body caused by copper exposure.
18634	The tumors that formed in the stomach due to the fact that it secretes gastrin which fuels large amounts of acid by the stomach.
18637	Treatment with isotretinoin may induce substantial resolution of skin lesions, but the risk of secondary infection remains.
18638	The etiology of benign breast disease is unknown. Potential causes include: Luteal phase defect in progesterone; increased estrogen (17 beta estradiol); Hyperprolactinemia; The effect of consumption of methylxanthine-containing substances, e.g., coffee and chocolate is controversial
