18077	Since the streak gonads are unable to develop the hormones estrogen and androgen, it often follows that at puberty, developments are hampered. With the absence of these hormones, the sexual characteristics that are supposed to appear during puberty do now show up such as the development of female breasts, growth of pubic hair, widening of the hips and pelvis, and the occurrence of menstruation. Most medical imaging would not be able to show the gonads that cause the problem but would show, instead, the presence of a uterus without the ovaries.
18078	To confirm diagnoses of XXY syndrome, karyotypes are often used. This means that blood sample is drawn from the patient (only a small quantity is taken) then the white blood corpuscles are separated. These white blood particles are then mixed with tissue culture medium. The next step is to incubate the mixture and then to observe for an extra X chromosome.
18080	It is believed that the abnormality occurs during meiosis. It is during this phase that the X chromosomes fail to separate and thus producing the extra X chromosomes. The diagnosis of this condition can only be done during karyotyping where the extra X chromosomes appear.
18081	Karyotyping is necessary to be able to diagnose xxyy. Karyotyping is done by drawing some blood and studying the blood sample to see if xxyy is present on the boy's chromosomal structure. This is the only known test that can reveal xxyy syndrome.
18087	The disease can be diagnosed by genetic testing.
18091	Diagnosis of abdominal cystic lymphangioma can be made with the use of ultrasonography. The more severe cases which involve intrasystic hemorrhaging are harder to diagnose. When this case presents itself, it is best to opt for celioscopy and computed tomography. It is believed that through the use of these two other techniques, a more precise analysis can be made. Once a diagnosis has been made, proper treatments follow.
18092	Since most of these abdominal defects cannot be detected until early on in pregnancy, it is important for the expectant mother to undergo ultrasound examinations and cord insertions on her second and third trimester of pregnancy.
18094	Diagnosis is made through physical examination and ultrasound.
18096	Plain radiography that comes with barium swallow could display the impressions on the esophagus and aorta. Thoracic aortography will often demonstrate the relationship of the esophagus or tracheal arch (this works simultaneously with barium swallow) and also the source of the aberrant subclavian being the fourth primary branch of the arch in the aorta. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) or CT scan often does definitive diagnosis. These tests show the acute condition of the narrowing airway and the retro-esophageal aberrant.
18097	The disease can be diagnosed by the presence of the symptoms, MRI and genetic testing.
18099	It is as well detected through a medical checkup done by a gynecologist.
18100	Often, a sample of fluid will be taken from the abscess and tested to see what organism is causing the problem.
18101	To diagnose Bartholin's abscess, a pelvic examination may be done to screen for characteristic tenderness and enlargement of the Bartholin's gland. In addition, lab tests may be performed to determine the presence of gonorrhea. A lab analysis may be performed on the fluid sample for further testing. A biopsy may also be recommended to rule out Bartholin's gland tumor in women over 40.
18102	Some children may experience episodes that look a lot like absence seizures, but aren't truly seizures. However, these may also be a sign of mental retardation, ADHD and autism. An electroencephalography and brain scans can help diagnose absence seizure.
18115	Achalasia has so many symptoms that are similar to many other illnesses that's why it is hard to diagnose or it can easily be misdiagnosed. Other disorders that have similar symptoms include GERD or gastroesophageal reflux disorder; psychosomatic disorders, or hiatus hernia. To properly investigate the presence of achalasia, it is imperative to undergo x-ray (that comes with barium swallow) or esophagography. The physician or radiologist makes the patient swallow some barium solution which would fail to pass easily through the lower part of the esophageal sphincter. The physician will then be able to point out a margin of air fluid over the column of barium because of the absence of peristalsis. The 'rat tail' or 'bird's beak' would appear on the lower esophagus. Five minutes should be enough to give the doctor a thorough observation. Manometry is the most important factor in establishing the achalasia diagnosis. A probe will measure the waves of pressure in various esophageal portions (also that of the stomach's) during the swallowing stage. Here, a thin tube will be placed through the nose and the doctor will instruct the patient to swallow more than once. Endoscopy is a good test to view the actual state of the esophagus and the stomach. A very tiny camera is put through the patient's mouth while he is sedated. The endoscopist will examine a 'pop' when the scope will pass through the lower esophageal sphincter which would not relax. CT scan is best done to rule out the possibility of esophageal cancer.
18118	Physical examination for signs of inflammation along the tendon will be performed by the doctor as the patient stands on their toes. Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) scan will provide a clearer computer image of the soft tissues, which make can confirm diagnosis for Achilles Tendonitis.
18119	Questions on the person's activities are usually raised to determine the possible causes of the condition. Physical examination of the ankles, feet and legs will also be a basis of the diagnosis. MRI may also be conducted.
18122	This disease is detectable even before birth with the use of prenatal ultrasonography. A test of the DNA could be done before birth to diagnose homozygosity (2 copies of mutated genes are inherited). Homozygosity is a condition which is deadly because it can lead to stillbirths. Other characteristics include sluggish motor movements and hypotonia (or having low muscle tones). When hypotonia occurs, the patient is unable to walk until the 24th until the 36th months. Obesity is also linked to this condition. Otitis media (mid ear infections) is also common among children (this happens because of the malformation of the skull). Some cases of otitis media need to be surgically corrected. Again, due to skull malformations, the teeth can become overcrowded and, often, malocclusion follows. This makes keeping the mouth hygienic very difficult.
18123	Diagnosis is made through physical examination of the patient and undergoing imaging tests such as X-rays.
18130	Mutations of the PCCA or the PCCB genes (in both copies) cause the propionic acidemia. The two genes are the ones that are responsible in the formation of the propionyl-CoA carboxylase enzyme (EC 6.4.1.3), called as PCC. PCC is needed to make a normal breakdown of the important amino acids isoleucine, valine, methionine and threonine, also other fatty acids that are odd-chained. The mutations of PCCA or PCCB disrupt the enzyme functions, thus hampering metabolism of these acids. The result is an accumulation in the blood of compounds such as propionyl-CoA, ketones, propionic acid, and other lethal compounds. This accumulation triggers propionic acedemia.
18132	Diagnosis starts with a physical examination as well asking pertinent questions on the possible causes of the injury. An imaging test such as an X-ray or an MRI is used to assess the damage and determine if surgery is required.
18134	Diagnosis is made through examination of the acne by a dermatologist.
18137	CT that is contrast-enhanced will almost always detect the presence of acoustic neuromas (especially those that are bigger than 2.0 centimeters in diameter and projects beyond 1.5 centimeters into the cerebellopontine slant). MRI that is enhanced with gadolinium may also be able to detect smaller tumors.
18137	Diagnosis is made through review of medical history of the patient, physical examination and undergoing hearing tests or audiogram test and CT Scan and MRI.
18138	The diagnosis of this illness is often based on the symptoms that are seen by the physician on the patient's skin. Also, a skin biopsy could be taken and observed under the microscope. The biopsy would be able to point out the changes on the disorder's characteristics.
18142	By just looking at it, doctors can easily recognize skin tags or acrochordons. Tests are not even needed for a skin tag with a characteristic appearance (being easily moveable, soft, flesh-colored or slightly darker and usually attached to the skin surface by a stalk). If a skin growth is being noticed that is too firm to be wiggled easily, you may ask your doctor for an examination.
18143	Usually, no procedures are required to diagnose the condition. If any of the physicians suspect a blockage of the arteries, color Doppler ultrasonography could be performed right after the person's exposure to the cold weather or even before the patient's exposure. It is also possible for the doctors to order blood exams to check for any symptoms that could cause this condition or to prevent Raynaud's.
18147	The disease can be detected by monitoring of the symptoms exhibited by the patient.
18154	Your doctor may remove a small skin sample (biopsy) for examination under a microscope, in addition to taking a complete checking of the affected area of the skin and as well as a complete medical history. The biopsy is often sent to a pathologist in diagnosing the skin samples.
18155	Physicians can often identify AK through a thorough examination. A skin biopsy is necessary when the keratosis is thick or large. This is to make sure that the bump is just a keratosis and not skin cancer. Sebborrheic keratosis is a bump which appears in groups (such as actinic keratosis) and are often mistaken as actinic keratoses.
18160	Since ARF is usually presented in various ways, this medical condition can be quite difficult to diagnose. Clinical observation of the symptoms can provide strong diagnosis of the disease.
18161	Acute beryllium disease is diagnosed by x-rays and blood tests.
18162	Diagnosis is made through physical examination, chest X-ray, examination of the sputum, and blood tests.
18164	Patients who are seeking treatment would usually account some vague history of chronic fatigue. Results from blood tests can easily help establish the diagnosis. An examination of the blood can easily identify abnormal number of red blood cells. Bone marrow examinations should also be performed either through biopsy or aspiration to further examine cell types.
18165	Sweet's syndrome can be detected with the distinctive rashes, which are painful and tender and can rapidly increase in size and progress to blisters. Blood samples can also be examined to check if there is an abnormal rise of white blood cells, one of the characteristic of Sweet's syndrome. Tissue samples can also be taken (biopsy of the affected area) to determine the characteristic abnormalities associated with this skin disorder.
18166	There are several tests that can help detect acute gouty arthritis. Joint fluid tests, where fluid is drawn from the inflamed area can help reveal urate crystals. Blood examinations can also be used to measure the level of uric acid in the patient's blood.
18167	GBS is determined via electrodiagnostic tests done on the nerves and muscles in the affected areas.
18168	To properly diagnose this disease, several laboratory tests on the patient's urine sample needs to be performed to determine any increase of the heme precursors. Relative of the patient who does not display any symptom can still be identified as carriers through the measurement of the red blood cells and undergoing DNA testing.
18169	Blood and urine samples are among the primary basis of the diagnosis. The creatinine, potassium and urea levels are also checked for possible chemical abnormalities and rule out other internal problems.
18170	The signs and symptoms are the primary basis of a liver failure. Supporting tests to be conducted include blood tests, imaging tests, and electronencephalogram that measures brain activity. A liver biopsy may also be required.
18171	ALL is diagnosed through marrow and blood samples, showing abnormally high lymphocyte blasts. Results will also show the type of lymphocyte that are affected and the number and size of the leukemia cells.
18172	The first clue of AML includes abnormal result of the patient's blood count. AML also presents isolated decrease in red blood cells, platelets and even an abnormally low white blood cell count. A bone marrow examination can also be performed to further identify the type of blood cells that have displayed abnormality.
18173	Unlike other medial conditions, AMS is quite easy to detect and does not require complex tests since diagnosis is largely based on the subject's symptoms. This includes severe headaches and vomiting in high altitudes.
18174	Primary indicators of AML is often evident in the abnormal results of blood counts. Bone marrow examination should also be conducted to further verify the type of abnormal cells. Diagnosis of this diseases in considered to be quite challenging and should by a qualified hematologist.
18175	Diagnosis include inding friable tissues and erythematous at the gum lines. To efficiently detect the early signs of gingival disease, some dentists measure the deepness of the pocket sorrounding each tooth. The normal depths is 3 mm and the deeper pockets are, the higher the risk of gingivitis and periodontitis.
18176	Patients with acute pancreatitis are diagnosed through several tests to determine the levels fo serum amylase, lipase levels, and elastase. It can be difficult to diagnose acute pancreatitis signs the signs and symptoms mimic that of pancreatitis. Patient's history should be taken into account and symptoms that will be noted during physical examination.
18177	Diagnosis is made through physical examination and undergoing series of tests such as blood tests.
18178	The diagnosis of APMPPE include lumbar puncture to determine elevated protein that may be presnt in the spinal fluid and urinalysis to detect the presence of casts, proteinuria and lymphocytes that may indicate microvascular nepropathy.
18179	To be able to properly distinguish APL from other forms of leukemia, a morphologic examination is required through aspirate or bone marrow biopsy. To monitor relapse, doctors use PCR tests for allow early re-treatment.
18180	The diagnosis can be done through blood urea nitrogen tests and creatinine. For causes that are not apparent, large volume blood test and urine examination may be necessary as well as ultrasonography of the renal tract to check for possible obstruction of the renal tract.
18182	Diagnosis of acute sinusitis typically involves a study of the patient's medical history, conducting a physical examination, and perhaps using imaging studies as well as laboratory tests to get a definitive diagnosis. A CT scan can also be used to accurately pinpoint the areas of the inflammation.
18183	The disease is caused by the symptoms displayed by the patient.
18184	Diagnosis is often supported by a positive history of risk factors. Yet the physician must rule out other factors for acute renal failure, such as prerenal, postrenal, and renal ARF. Distinguishing ATN from prerenal ARF can be extremely hard. Microscopic examination of the urine and urine chemistry and microscopic examination of the urine help to confirm the diagnosis. ATN does not quickly improve following the administration of large-volume intravenous fluid. Early diagnosis of ATN by exclusion of prerenal and postrenal causes of acute renal failure, analysis of urine measures (for example, fractional excretion of sodium in the absence of diuretics), and examination of urinary sediment can allow the early involvement of nephrologists and improve survival.
18189	Diagnosis is made through polymerase chain reaction assay, virus isolation and serology.
18191	Diagnosis is made through serum testing, blood testing and Schilling tests.
18193	This syndrome is related to microcephaly, arthrogryposis, and cleft palate and various craniofacial, neurological, respiratory, and limb abnormalities, including bone and joint defects of the upper limbs, adducted thumbs, camptodactyly, and talipes equinovarus or calcaneovalgus. Patients affected with the disease are considered mentally retarded, and most die in childhood. Patients often undergo respiratory difficulties, such as pneumonia, and from seizures due to dysmyelination in the white matter. It has been suggested that the Moro reflex (startle reflex in infants) may be a tool in detecting the congenital clapsed thumb early in infancy. The thumb will normally extend because of this reflex.
18194	The important differential for the medical condition such as mesenteric adenitis is acute appendicitis, although clinical picture of this condition can be easily confirmed with the absence of rectal tenderness associated with appendicitis.
18197	There are various techniques that can be employed in the diagnosis of adenomas. Among the usual procedures include the collection of urine and blood samples, CT scan, ultrasound imaging, and MRI or magnetic resonance imaging. Biopsies can also be used to determine if the tumor malignant or benign.
18198	Most of the patients with adrenal adenoma are diagnosed by chance when an MRI or CT scan is performed for some unrelated symptoms.
18199	Diagnosis can be done through the signs and symptoms reported by patient, a pelvic examination, ultrasound imaging and MRI of the uterus. In rare cases, doctors may also perform endometrial biopsy to verify if the bleeding is not associated with other serious conditions.
18200	Doctors will be able to detect ADA deficiency during the pregnancy stage through taking samples tissues from the amniotic sac. Diagnosis can also be done by examining the enzyme levels in the blood samples of the fetus that is taken from the umbilical cord.
18201	The diagnosis for AMD remains to be quite difficult since it is generally nonspecific manifestations that can cross a number of medical specialties and the existence of disease variants. Urinary uric acid and creatinine ratio can become valuable and simple tests can imply diagnostic possibility of metabolic-related disorders.
18204	Diagnostic tests for ADSL are usually based on the presence in cerebospinal fluid and urine samples that appear to contain AICA-riboside and S-Ado.
18205	The adhesion can be diagnosed through Blood test, X-ray and CT scan. But commonly this disorder is diagnosed during the laparoscopy and laparotomy surgery.
18206	The primary method for diagnosing a frozen shoulder is through a physical examination. Imaging tests may also be required to determine other possible underlying cause.
18207	The patient's clinical examination may reveal some sectoral paresis of the iris. In some cases, the tonic pupil appears smaller over time. CT and MRI scanning can also significantly help in the diagnostic testing of the patient's focal hypoactive reflexes.
18208	The diagnosis is largely based on patient's reports and from the doctor's physical examination n. There are no laboratory tests although blood sample may show indication of an active immune system and infection.
18209	PET scans or positron emission tomography as well as other high-resolution imaging effectively enables physicians to properly diagnose the presence of malignant adrenal tumors.
18210	Among the most prominent clinical clues include the patient's abnormal weight loss, and signs of electrolyte abnormalities
18214	Laboratory testing could confirm hormonal syndromes. Cushing syndrome laboratory results include an increase in blood sugar (serum glucose) and a heightened urine cortisol. Confirmation of adrenal virilism is done by findings such as excessive dehydroepiandrosterone and serum androstenedione. Conn syndrome findings include potassium serum that is low, low activities of the plasma renin, and a high level of serum aldosterone. Finding an excess in serum estrogen normally confirms feminization. Abdominal radiological studies such as MRI or CT scans are useful in identifying the tumor site, knowing its differentiation from other illnesses and pointing out the invasion extent of the carcinoma in neighboring tissues and organs. Metastases of the bones or lungs can be diagnosed with the help bone and chest CT scans. These are able to provide information as to the treatment that will be used (especially if the process involves surgically removing the carcinoma).
18218	Since the disorder is presented in several ways, diagnosis can be very difficult. It often requires a laborious procedure which consists of eliminating other diseases. The clinical features confirm the diagnosis with the combination of some other common tests. Arthritis that persists for up to six weeks is the most frequent symptom. Also, there is often a rash and the fevers spike extremely. Blood tests often indicate the elevation of white blood cells (a manifestation of acute inflammation). Anemia (or the low count of red blood cells) could also be diagnosed. Generally, these elevations on blood tests are indicators of severe inflammation. Other inflammation indicators include elevation of the levels of CRP or c-reactive protein and ferritin but classic tests for blood often indicate negative results for systemic lupus erythematosus and rheumatoid arthritis. The new marker of AOSD is glycosylated ferritin. When this marker goes below 50%, this often points to AOSD. All the symptoms of the illness (even the high fevers) could last for a few months. The more long-term condition is that of the arthritis.
18219	Schizophrenia in children and adolescents are commonly diagnosed by a qualified psychiatrist, mental health professionals.
18221	Diagnosis is made through physical examination of the patient as well as undergoing tests such as blood tests and endoscopy.
18222	The disease can be diagnosed by a CT scan.
18227	Thorough physical assessment can identify agnosia. MRI and CT scan can also help diagnose the disorder and the severity of injury.
18230	Because of the increased utilization of imaging methods like MRI and CT makes Agyria pachygyria polymicrogyria to be more widely diagnosed. Although, Agyria pachygyria polymicrogyria is usually misdiagnosed as pachygyria or lissencephaly including expert radiologists for the reason that the differences of this diseases are difficult to spot on an MRI or CT scan.
18236	An ear examination is usually conducted if the symptoms continue to persist to determine if the patient has barotraumas or possible signs of ear infection. Typically, the symptoms will disappear after a few minutes or hours and is unlikely to persist after the plane ride.
18237	Akathisia syndrome can be diagnosed through psychological assessment or behavioral assessment and through drug history taking. Sometimes it is misdiagnosed with antisychotic neuroleptic induced akathisia. That makes the doctor prescribe another antipsychotic drugs that worsen the symptoms of the patient.
18239	Diagnostic tests can be done by liver biopsy and X-ray findings.
18242	A complete diagnostic of albinism includes physical examination, with special notes of the specific descriptions on the changes in pigmentation, thorough eye examination and a pigment history.
18244	Diagnosis for this medical disorder include abnormal gene testing, test to determine the level of serum calcium and serum phosphate, and a CT scan and head MRI to check any characteristic differences. Patients may be asked to undergo urinary test in its response to the PTH challenge.
18246	Alcaptonuria is typically diagnosed when an individual starts to suffer progressive arthritis, predominantly in the spine, experience joint discomfort as well ass unexplained discoloration of the skin. This disorder affects a great number of organ systems in the body.
18247	Laboratory tests can be performed to confirm alcohol use and complications. Further testing may also assist in determining the increased levels of serum ammonia as well as amylase.
18248	Since there are about over a hundred types of liver diseases, the diagnosis of alcohol hepatitis can be a little tricky. Doctors usually look into the patient's medical history, conduct laboratory exams such as blood tests, ultrasound, and liver biopsy.
18249	Alcohol-induced neurotoxicity syndrome is diagnosed based on the symptoms shown by the patient.
18250	In accumulation to checking for noticeable signs and symptoms of alcohol poisoning, your doctor will likely order blood tests to check blood alcohol levels and distinguish flag signs of alcohol toxicity including relatively low sugar level in the blood. A urine test is an effective clinical laboratory procedure to confirm diagnosis for alcohol poisoning.
18251	All doctors should ask their patients about their drinking. Physical examination is carried out to identify physiological problems associated with alcoholism.
18252	The primary basis for the diagnosis of this condition is the high blood pressure and the very low levels of potassium that does no respond to medications. Several tests are conducted to confirm the diagnosis, including oral salt loading, saline loading and Fludrocortisone suppression test.
18253	To date, the diagnosis of Alexander disease is not possible without autopsy or post mortem examination of the nerve tissues and brain. Doctors conduct brain biopsy which will show the characteristic degeneration appearance of the brain tissue.
18254	Diagnosis involves study of the patient's medical history, CT scans and physical examination.
18255	Laboratory test are done to identify the ph of the body or alkalosis are Arterial blood gas or venous blood gas, chem.-20, litmus paper or urine dipstick test urinalysis and urine pH
18256	The black color of the urine is the primary basis for a doctor;s diagnosis of Alkaptonuria that is coupled with other symptoms such as discoloration of the skin. The elevated level of the homogenistic acid found in the urine can confirm the disorder.
18257	Patients usually undergo CBC, urinalysis, sedimentation rate, serum protein electrophoresis as well VDRL test to derive a more definitive diagnosis.
18258	Doctors perform diagnosis through blood tests, biopsy of the affected tissue, and chest x-rays.
18259	Diagnosis is made through pulmonary tests and undergoing imaging tests such as chest radiographs and CT Scan.
18260	Among the very first indications of this respiratory infection are the initial signs of asthma attacks. Chest x-rays and CT scans will show widened airways and help doctors come up with a more definitive diagnosis.
18261	Diagnosis is made through physical examination and sputum tests.
18262	Skin prick test using small amounts of allergen extract pricked into the skin to observe signs of allergic reactions. Allergy blood test measures the amount of allergy-causing antibodies in the bloodstream.
18263	Doctors will require a detailed report on medical history and symptoms and performs physical examination. Other supplementary tests include biopsy of the scalp and blood tests.
18264	The first signs involve bald patches in small areas that are usually round on shape. Some patients sometimes feel pain or a slight tingle on the affected area. Medical professionals test the strength of the hair by simply tugging or pulling it to see if there are hair lost in the process.
18267	The appearance of hair loss and the ruling out other causes of hair loss are the usual bases of diagnosing female pattern baldness.
18268	Through visual inspection of the scalp, androgenetic alopecia in men can usually be diagnosed and also through a family history of similar hair loss might be suggestive as well.
18271	Diagnosis is made by measuring the enzyme activity in white blood cells and measuring substances in urine. Although diagnosis is usually made late, symptoms are often mild. However, biochemical diagnosis is difficult, so most cases are under diagnosed.
18273	Diagnosis involves personal examination of the urinary sediment and a comprehensive family history. Patients with Alport syndrome are usually children with unexplained hematuria, or even an adolescent or middle-aged male with a family history of kidney disease in maternal relatives.
18274	The U.S. Jackson Laboratory and the UK University of Southampton isolated the single gene "ALMS1" responsible for the Alstrom Syndrome. Since this gene is recessive, it should be passed from both parents for the condition to manifest. Alstrom syndrome can be clinically detected in infancy. However, it is more usually detected much later to cross out other symptoms that may be related to other problems. Alstrom syndrome is only diagnosed clinically because genetic testing is limited and rare.
18276	An upper body x-ray may possibly be performed. Stethoscope can be used to look for pulmonary edema indications by detecting sounds called scrunches in the lung.
18277	Diagnosis is done by examining the symptoms suffered by patients exposed to heights.
18278	The diagnosis of this pulmonary disease should be considered in infants who is present with severe hypoxemia and idiopathic pulmonary hypertension, and who do not answer appropriately after 7 to 10 days of neonatal intensive care treatment. The diagnosis can be confirmed by lung biopsy or autopsy. Referring to a pathologist with an experience in making this diagnosis may be helpful.
18279	Diagnosis includes blood tests for parasite, antibody blood tests, X-ray, CAT Scan, MRI Scan and E. Multicularis Antibody tests.
18280	Dental examination and sometimes an x-ray may be required to have a definitive diagnosis. Immediate attention is important to ensure that the infection will not spread and affect surrounding areas.
18281	Alveolar soft part sarcoma usually exists in a patient's body for years before being diagnosed. The cancer could grow and even push aside its surrounding tissues before it causes any discomfort. As such, ASPS symptoms are usually painless soreness or swelling caused by compressed muscles and nerves. These symptoms may affect the range of motion in the affected area.
18282	Diagnosis of EAA is based on clinical tests and the patient's symptom history after exposure to the allergen. Tests include x-ray, lung function exam and blood tests.
18283	Diagnosis is made through physical examiantion, lung biopsy, sputum cytology and undergoing imaging tests such as X-ray, MRI and CT Scans.
18287	The first indication of an ambiguous genitalia is made through physical examination, after which a urine and blood test may be conducted to properly measure the hormone levels of the child. Chromosome analysis may also be conducted along with a biopsy of the reproductive organ produces male or female hormones.
18293	Diagnosis of American trypanosomiasis can be achieved through microscopic examination, isolation of the agent, immunodiagnostic tests and through Molecular Biology techniques.
18294	Amnesia can be diagnosed by knowing the patient's history, performing physical and psychological examinations, and knowing the cause the amnesia.
18295	Diagnosis is made through review of personal history of the patient including physical examination and blood testing.
18296	Amnestic Disorder may be diagnosed through imaging studies, mental state examination or MMSE to evaluate the person's cognitive functioning.
18297	To diagnose the condition it is necessary to have stool exam, specimen must be fresh or not exceed to 30 minutes to prevent the growth of other bacteria. Sometimes it is done number of times from day to day to confirm the diagnosis.
18298	Any patient with a traumatic amputation requires careful monitoring of vital signs as well as assessment for other traumatic injuries. If amputation involves more than just a finger or a toe, assessment of airway, breathing, and circulation is also required.
18299	Your doctor may conduct a physical exam and a variety of tests, including blood and urine tests. Although blood or urine tests may detect an abnormal protein - which could denote amyloidosis, the only definitive test for amyloidosis is a tissue biopsy
18300	The disease can be diagnosed based on the present symptoms, as well as genetic counseling and metabolic tests on the cells.
18302	Reviewing your family's medical history and your signs and symptoms is one way of diagnosing ALS. You will have a physical examination that may involve some standard clinical testing of your nerves and muscles. Furthermore, you will undergo a selection of tests, including tests to rule out other conditions.
18303	Doctors use many tests to diagnose cancer and tell if it has metastasized (spread). Some tests may also tell which treatments may be the most effective. For most types, a biopsy is the only way to make a definitive diagnosis of cancer, if it is not possible, the doctor may suggest other tests that will help make a diagnosis.
18305	Your doctor will ask you for your medical history and do a physical exam, including inspection of the anal region. In many cases of anal fissure, the tear is seen.
18306	Physical examination and interview on the symptoms are among the primary basis for diagnosis. Colonoscopy can also be conducted to check other possible complications.
18307	Medication of the skin may indicate hives and swelling of the eyes or face. The skin may be blue from lack of oxygen or may be whitish from shock. Testing for the definite allergen that caused anaphylaxis is deferred until after treatment.
18308	Diagnosis is made through urinalyis, blood tests and biopsy of the skin.
18311	The doctor will make a physical exam. If the doctor doubts an underlying medical state as the cause of anasarca, he or she may recommend some tests like chest X-ray, urine tests or blood tests, to identify the condition.
18314	Diagnosis of Diamond-Blackfan anemia involves an observation of anemia, low immature red blood cells counts and a dramatic loss of erythroid precursors in the bone marrow. These clinical features support the presence of congenital abnormalities, elevated fetal hemoglobin, macrocytosis, elevated adenosine deaminase levels in the red blood cells. Most patients of Diamond-Blackfan anemia are diagnosed during the first 2 years of life.
18315	Diagnosis of Pernicious anemia requires a full blood count and measurements of 12 levels in serum. To distinguish Pernicious anemia from other diseases that cause vitamin B12 deficiency, a Schillings test is recommended.
18316	To diagnose Sideroblastic anemia, ringed "sideroblasts" should be present in the bone marrow. Anemia is usually moderate to severe with marked poikilocytosis and anisocytosis. In the lab findings, patients with Sideroblastic anemia have an increased level of ferritin, decreased iron-binding capacity, 20% to 30% hematocrit, high serum iron levels, high transferring saturation, lead poisoning, slightly increased mean corpuscular volume.
18317	Anencephaly can be diagnosed early by completing an ultrasound examination during pregnancy. Since Anencephaly is not a common disorder, many false diagnosis occur. It is often mistaken for microcephaly and exencephaly. Sometimes, doctors provide a false prognosis stating that the baby can live for several years. Since the brain is open and prone to infections, this cannot occur.
18320	Your doctor will require a blood sample from your child. A mixture of hereditary tests can expose the chromosome defects related to this disease. Examinations include Chromosome analysis (karyotyping), FISH or Fluorescent in situ hybridization and DNA methylation test. DNA methylation test reveals a gene's imprinting pattern.
18321	A physical examination is usually required to diagnose the problem along with the interview on the symptoms. Diagnosis is confirmed with an electrocardiogram, stress test, chest x-ray and echocardiogram. Early detection is important to stabilize the patient's condition and reduce the severity of the case.
18321	The diagnosis of this disease is based upon the standard history of the person's chest pain on effort and by the process of test. The doctor will make a measurement of your blood pressure and will perform physical exams.
18323	Diagnostic tests for Angiofollicular lymph node hyperplasia usually include physical examination, blood and urine tests, lymph node biopsy, and imaging techniques. Since this medical condition has been categorized to be quite rare, patients are often advised to seek second or third medical opinion.
18327	Constant check-up and monitoring of people especially those that are suffering from diabetes should be done. Problems in the vascular vessels of the heart,eyes, limbs, kidneys and brain should be avoided.
18328	Diagnosis of angiosarcoma is achieved through a physical examination, a computerized tomography scan (CT scan), x-rays and a magnetic resonance imaging scan (MRI scan). The only method of confirming diagnosis is through biopsy of the affected tissue.
18329	To diagnose Anguillulosis, a parasitological exam of stool is used. The diagnosis depends largely on the microscopic identification of larvae in human stool. The stool can be examined directly, after concentration, after Baermann funnel technique, after culture or after culture via Harada Mori filter paper method. Direct examinations are required for freshly collected stool because roundworm eggs usually hatch on cooling, making larvae difficult to distinguish from "strongyloides".
18330	A dentist or a doctor can diagnose angular cheilitis in different ways, depending on what causes the disease. The problem can also be diagnosed by your dentist by judging the fit of your dentures.
18331	Doctors are likely to diagnose anhidrosis based on the signs and symptoms. Other laboraty tests can also be conducted such as the quantative sudomotor axon reflex test, silastic sweat imprint, and thermoregulatory sweat test.
18333	Diagnosis of Anisakiasis is done through gastroscopic examination, wherein the 2-cm larvae are sought after and removed. A histopathologic exam of the tissues removed, biopsy or surgery can confirm Anisakiasis.
18334	Diagnosis includes physical and eye examination of the patient by an ophthalmologist.
18335	Physical examination and x-rays are among the primary basis of diagnosis for ankle fracture.
18336	Diagnosis is primary based on the symptoms. Imaging tests such as MRI and x-rays may also be conducted to check the severity of the condition.
18339	Diagnosis of Ankylostomiasis involves finding characteristics of the worm eggs through a microscopic examination of stools. However, this method of diagnosis is not effective during the early stages of Ankylostomiasis. Adult hookworms are rarely seen through a microscope, but it could be found through surgery, autopsy or endoscopy.
18341	An infant born with Ano-rectal atresia is usually detected quickly. However, the type of Ano-rectal atresia will be determined and evaluated if the condition is associated with other malformations. This is important to treat the condition and associated defects early, which could avoid further symptoms.
18348	Physical medical examination and consultation is necessary to fully detect and understand other possible causes of the medical condition.
18350	Diagnosis includes physical examination including review of medical history of the patient. It may also be done through a series of blood test in order to measure prolactin, thyroid stimulating hormone and the functions of the adrenal. Ultrasound, MRI, CT Scan and laparoscopy may also be used to confirm the medical condition.
18351	Diagnosis includes physical examination and observation of symptoms. It may also includes blood tests and imaging tests such as MRI, CT Scan and X-rays to rule out other possible causes and to determine the extent of the condition.
18352	If the doctor suspects anterior cruciate ligament injury, he will order an MRI to confirm the diagnosis and to assess other damage to the knee if there is any.
18354	The illness can be determined by physical check-up of the affected knee. X-ray can also detect signs of fracture or injury.
18356	Antibiotic susceptibility tests: are performed to study bacteria and their sensitivity to several antibiotics. Epidemiological monitoring software is used for the observation of bacterial resistance to antibiotics.
18358	The symptoms are among the basis for the diagnosis of antibiotic-associated diarrhea. Laboratory tests can be conducted to further confirm the diagnosis. While diarrhea may not be a life-threatening condition, it requires medical attention to prevent possible complication.
18359	Antibiotic-caused colitis is diagnosed by physical and stool examination.
18362	Patients with Antisocial personality disorder may express remorse or guilt and may offer rationalizations and excuses. However, his or her history of criminal acts suggest little guilt and remorse. In addition to the features listed above, a person must have three other symptoms, including impulsivity (failure to plan ahead), aggressiveness and irritability, consistent irresponsibility, lack of remorse, deceitfulness and failure to conform to social norms. However, Antisocial personality disorder should not occur during any episode of manic or schizophrenia. An estimated 3% of males and 1% of females have Antisocial personality disorder.
18364	Diagnosis can be done by genetic testing.
18366	Diagnosis of Anuria is made through physical examination of the patient and undergoing series of laboratory tests such as urinalysis, serum creatinine, blood chemistry tests, kidney and abdominal ultrasound, x-ray, abdominal CT Scan or abdominal MRI and blood tests.
18369	Aortic coarctation can be diagnosed accurately through magnetic resonance angiography. However, if this condition occurs in adolescents and adults, echocardiograms may not be conclusive. Since aortic coarctation in adults usually reach the lower body, these could be seen by angiography or MR.
18371	No specific laboratory blood tests are needed to establish the diagnosis of supravalvar aortic stenosis
18372	Listening to the heart through a stethoscope is one of the primary basis of this problem. Other diagnostic tests include an echocardiogram, chest x-ray and electrocardiogram.
18375	Neurologist will perform tests that oblige the person to follow commands, name objects, answer question and communicate. The person is referred to a speech-language pathologist, who will then carry out a thorough examination to determine the person's ability to speak, write, read, and understand.
18377	Oral examination is the primary procedure to diagnose aphthous ulcers.
18380	Diagnosis of infantile apnea is made to those older than 37 weeks and only those with no causes found. Cardiorespiratory monitoring is used at the hospital after medical evaluation and resuscitation.
18381	Diagnosis is made using a sleep test after surgery wherein anesthetics were used.
18382	Diagnosis is made by observing clinical signs of the rash and assessing patient history.
18385	Diagnosis is made through routine prenatal ultrasound.
18388	Diagnosis is made through a magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scan and computed tomography (CT) scan.
18390	Diagnosis of Contractural Beals Type Arachnodactyly is based on the clinical signs present. Molecular genetic testing could also confirm the disease.
18391	The disease is diagnosed after the patient has suffered from headaches, troubles in eyesight and late child development. detection of a cyst can happen in another examination which is intended for other clinical reasons. The technoligies utilized to find cysts are CT scan, MRI and ultrasonography. But the most common technology being used is the MRI. Other methods used to determine the presence of cysts is the MMSE (mini-mental state examination) it is a short questinnare or survey-based test used to review cognition.
18392	Diagnosis is made through neurological examinations, CT scan, angiogram, biopsy and MRI scan.
18395	The patient is diagnosed with ARDS if he/she is suffering from severe injury or infection that will lead to respiratory problem. Chest X ray shows fluid in the lungs and arterial blood gas test determined oxygen saturation.
18396	Physical examination and bone marrow tests are used to detect the presence of the disease.
18398	Around the age of 3 Argeninemia is already obvious. The most evident symptom is stiffness, particularlyin the legs, due to unusual tensing of the muscles or spasticity. Here is a list of some of the other symptoms of Arginase deficiency: Slower than normal growth Developmental delay and eventual loss of developmental milestones Retardation mentally Fits/seizures tremble/shiver/tremor Difficulty with balance and coordination (ataxia) Ammonia can accumulate quickly in the blood because of fasting or high protein meals. The fast increase in ammonia may lead to a series of irritability, vomiting and refusal to eat. The symptoms may not be worse for some infected individuals and might not appear until later in life.
18401	An X-ray is usually the primary basis of diagnosis as well as the physical examination. For complicated and multiple bone fractures, an MRI will be able to provide a more definitive diagnosis.
18403	In order to make a definitive diagnosis of ARVD, there are a number of clinical tests to be performed including echocardiograpy, cardiac MRI, electro cardiogram and right ventricular angiography.
18404	1. Congenital heart disease Restored tetralogy of Fallot Ebstein's abnormality Uhl's irregularity Atrial septal deficit Partial irregular venous return 2. Obtained heart ailment Tricuspid valve ailment Infarction in the right ventricular Pulmonary hypertension Bundle-branch re-entrant tachycardia 3. Miscellaneous Pre-excited AV re-entry tachycardia Idiopathic RVOT tachycardia
18405	Diagnosis includes undergoing several laboratory tests including CBC count, abdominal radiograph, undergoing imaging tests like the ECG.
18407	Angiogram to have a better and clearer perspective of the blood flow to the heart. Ultrasound, CT scan and Magnetic Resonance Angiogram can show hardening and narrowing of arteries. Blood tests can help detect increased cholesterol, blood sugar levels and other substances that can possibly increase the risk of arteriosclerosis.
18408	Doppler ultrasound study is used to detect abnormal movement of the arterial blood flow. Magnetic Resonance Imaging or Magnetic Resonance Angiography can confirm diagnosis, determine the extent of damage, and assist in the treatment planning stages. Diagnostic Angiography provides a clear-cut and well-defined mapping of the blood vessels in the suspected area.
18409	There are several tools used to diagnose AVM such as: Doppler ultrasound study - to identify irregular jolting of arterial blood stream. If the outcome, commonly known as a sonogram are believe for AVM, an MRI or magnetic resonance angiography (MRA) will be made. MRI or MRA - to confirm the analysis, verify the size of the AVM, and help out with scheduling the phases of treatment. Diagnostic angiography - to offer an exact plotting of the blood vessels, both usual and unusual, in the part of the affected area.
18412	Still's disease can be diagnosed via physical examination of the joints as well as x-ray images.
18414	To diagnose septic arthritis, a blood culture may be taken to determine the presence of bacterium or invading organism. Culturing the synovial fluid (or fluid from the affected joint) may also help in diagnosis. In addition, an X-ray may be done on the affected joint.
18415	Thumb arthritis may be diagnosed based on a physical exam and clinical manifestations. The presence of distinctive lumps or swelling on the joints usually indicates thumb arthritis. In addition, a grinding sound, pain, or gritty feeling produced by moving the thumb against the wrist bone usually indicates that the cartilage has worn down ad the bones are rubbing against each other. Imaging techniques, such as X-rays, bone scans, CT scans, MRI scans, and arthrography may also be done to show bony projections along the bone spurs, worn-down cartilage, and loss of joint space.
18417	For the moment there are no prenatal diagnostic devices that are exists to check for the condition. Diagnosis is merely utilized to exclude additional cause. This is completed by undertaking muscle biopsies, blood examination and general medical results exclude other disorders and presents facts for AMC.
18419	Diagnosis includes undergoing several tests such as blood tests and urinalysis.
18422	The disease can be diagnosed once treated.
18423	Diagnosis is made through physical examination of the abdomen whereby a visible and bulging of the flanks may be seen it may also be detected through undergoing complete blood count or CBC , undergoing ultrasound and abdominal CT Scan.
18424	ASD is often detected incidentally during an unrelated checkup that requires listening to the heart with a stethoscope. Physicians have reason to suspect ASD if a heart murmur is heard. An echocardiogram may also detect the same heart murmur, which leads to suspicion of ASD. In addition, ASD may be diagnosed through a chest x-ray, an electrocardiogram (ECG), a cardiac catheterization, or pulse oximetry.
18425	Generally the background and examination will produce doubt. Verification is generally through CSF result. The result should be as follows: a. > 500 mononuclear cells/mm│ (pleocytosis) must build up within 8-48 hours b. glucose should be normal c. pressure is elevated d. protein is eminent e. No results that suggest other diagnosis, like no lactate, negative bacteria antigen tests f. PCR can spot a contributing organism Viruses might be cultivated from swabs of additional parts, for instance the throat. Blood tests are seldom useful in creating the diagnosis although it can be of use to create baseline chemistry. Imagings is valuable in excluding additional diagnoses, or classifying other features of disease by an organism for instance, a chest X-ray can be valuable if tuberculosis is suspected.
18426	The background of a pregnancy incident follow by a D&C resulting to secondary amenorrhea is usual. Imaging by hysterosalpingography or gynecologic ultrasonography will expose the coverage of the scar development. Hormone researches explain typical levels constant with reproductive task. There are ways to decrease the danger of developing Asherman's after a D&C, for instance hormone therapy to results to sloughing off of the uterine lining. A technique that is not effective in diagnosing Asherman's Syndrome is through ultrasound. The most reliable technique is through hysteroscopy others include SHG (sonohysterography) or (hysterosalpingography).
18428	Tests aimed at assessing the level of intellect and academic abilities including speech, language, and visual-motor problem solving as well as identifying emotional, behavioral, and psychological concerns.
18429	The tools used to diagnose Aspergillosis are chest X-ray and calculated tomography pulmonary aspergillosis using this tools the fungus appears as an air crescent sign.
18436	The symptoms of childhood asthma may resemble those of other conditions. Therefore, eliminating other possible causes of the symptoms is vital in diagnosing the disease. Diagnosis for childhood asthma is mostly based on clinical presentations and family history. For children aged 6 and above, a pulmonary function testing or a spirometry may be used to measure the amount of air inhaled. In younger children, the disease may be harder to diagnose, as most children eventually outgrow asthma-like symptoms as they grow.
18437	A physical examination plus the patient's clinical symptoms and medical history are usually the basis for diagnosing exercise-induced asthma. Some diagnostic steps to determine exercise-induced asthma are: performing lung-function tests and conducting an exercise challenge to see how physical exertion affects the lungs.
18438	Astigmatism may be determined with the following diagnostic tools: a keratometer, a keratoscope, and a videokeratoscope. These devices measure and evaluate how light is reflected from the corneal surface or lens.
18439	Computed Tomography (CT) or Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) - is needed to distinguish the structure of the tumor determining its location, size and consistency. The distortion of the third and lateral ventricles, the dislocation of the frontal and middle cerebral arteries is seen using CT. An infiltrative quality indicative of the deliberate rising nature of the tumor is usually revealed in tissue biopsy with histological diagnosis. The appearance of the tumor is usually firmed, white-gray, and nearly impossible to tell apart from normal white matter. The tumor might be noncavitating, pseudocyst-forming or cavitating.
18440	Neurological referral - must be considered when the symptom starts. Audiogram and caloric testing - should be performed when the patient experiences dizziness, deafness or tinnitus. CT scan or MRI - must be done in the brain when eight nerves are destroyed. MRI of the brain is very helpful when numerous sclerosis is assumed also spinal fluid for gamma globulin and myelin basic protein. Magnetic resonance angiography - is done if vascular disease is assumed. It will allow evaluation of the vertebral-basilar arteries. If it is not available four-vessel cerebral angiography is used. Neuropathy work-up - is done for those that experience hypoactive movements and glove and stocking hypoesthesia and hypalgesia. Referral to a psychologist - this is done if Ataxia is present in a normal neurologic examination for the psychologist to perform psychometric testing.
18442	Chest x-ray, computed tomography, and bronchoscopy may be utilized to diagnose atelectasis.
18444	Diagnosis is made through examination of patient's history, physical examination and undergoing several tests including arteriography, doppler ultrassonography and plethysmography, EEG and CT Scan.
18451	Electrocardiogram(ECG) measures electrical impulses of the heart. Holter Monitor records electrical activity of the heart as you do your daily activities. Echocardiogram provides video images of the heart in motion to detect any structural heart disease. Blood tests to help rule out other conditions leading to atrial fibrillation.
18452	Diagnosis is made through physical examination and review of the patient's medical history. It may also include undergoing Electrocardiogram or ECG and Echocardiogram which is like an ultrasound test that makes use of the sound waves to determine the inside of the heart to check heart valve problems.
18455	Atrioventricular canal defect is diagnosed based on clinical manifestations, which are distinctly noticeable in the first few weeks of life. An echocardiogram may be required to confirm the defect. In some cases, a cardiac catheterization may be performed to allow physicians to gauge the pressure in the heart's chambers and blood vessels.
18456	Can be detected by cardiac auscultation Cardiac ultrasound - to confirm findings from cardiac auscultation which is less invasive and cardiac catheterization is also used but is more invasive. Utero via fetal echocardiogram - can be done for tentative diagnosis An AVSD diagnosis done ahead of birth is an indicator for Down syndrome, though additional signs and added testing are necessary prior to any classic evidence of either can be made.
18459	If attachment disorder is suspected, a comprehensive medical and psychological evaluation must be done on the affected child. The symptoms of this disorder may mimic those of other behavioral and psychological conditions; therefore, attention must be given to the child's behavioral patterns, relationship with parents/caregivers, and overall living situation. A diagnosis is made if the child meets the main criteria outlined in the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (DSM) for attachment disorder, including: disturbed and developmentally inappropriate social relationships at age 5 and below; failure to initiate or respond to social interactions; and failure of early care to meet the child's emotional needs.
18461	Diagnosis is made through an examination by an audiologists and undergoing screening for Auditory Processing Disorder and standard hearing screenings.
18462	The disorder can be diagnosed by observation of the given symptoms.
18463	There is no medical test to pinpoint autism but observing and talking to a child suspected with autism in combination with evaluating social, behavioral, and language skills history of development can help the specialist to confirm diagnosis of autism.
18465	Physical exam Liver function tests Antinuclear antibodies (ANA) test Smooth muscle cells (SMA) antibodies Liver/kidney microsomes (anti-LKM) Liver biopsy The diagnosis of autoimmune hepatitis always requires liver biopsy. Scoring system can be used in complicated cases. The best way to achieve the diagnosis is through a combination of laboratory examinations.
18469	Diagnosis can be done by physical check up and constant review of the person's condition after a spinal cord injury.
18470	Diagnosis is made through examination of medical history of the patient including observation of the symptoms as they manifest. Undergoing X-ray tests and imaging tests like Magnetic Resonance Imaging Scans or MRI Scans may also be used to detect the medical condition.
18471	The avian influenza virus can be assayed through: rapid antigen detection; near-patient tests for influenza; immunofluorescence assay; and enzyme immunoassay. A virus culture may also be done to determine the presence of the virus.
18472	There is no specific test to diagnose Avoidant Personality Disorder. Diagnosis is often based on the symptoms present and observed, questions regarding personal history and emotional well-being in combination with discussing with the patient's friends and behavior about noticeable behavior of the subject. This evaluation and assessment is carried out by a mental health professional.
18473	The condition can be diagnosed based on the symptoms given by the patient.
18475	Diagnosis includes physical examination and review of medical history of the patient. Undergoing testicular biopsy is also used to confirm the medical condition.
18477	Since Babesiosis can cause symptoms similar to malaria and other diseases, it can be hard to diagnose because it does not show up on any kind of test. However, once a person suspects Babesiosis, it becomes easier to diagnose. When exposed to endemic areas and develops consistent fever and unexpected anemia, be sure to consult with a health care representative. Babesiosis is diagnosed through direct blood examination with a PCR-based test or serology. Usually, a person with Babesiosis has reduced numbers of red blood cells. In animals around endemic areas, Babesiosis gives the same symptoms as humans - fevers and anemia. It is confirmed when "merozoites" appear on thin film blood smear examined under oil using "Romonovski" stains. This type of exam is commonly done for dogs in Babesiosis-endemic regions. For cerebral babesiosis, diagnosis is confirmed post-mortem through a brain smear and the observation of "eruthrocytes" in the cerebral cortical capillaries.
18478	There is no specific testing necessary to diagnose baby acne, as the condition is easily visible on the infant's skin.
18479	Diagnosis is made by focusing on the symptoms as they manifest including observation of patient's behavior.
18480	Baby bottle tooth decay can be diagnosed based on the symptoms presented by the infant.
18481	The disease can be diagnosed based on the present nodules on the skin, physical examination as well as skin biopsy.
18482	Scoliosis can be diagnosed by X-ray imaging.
18483	A test is usually not necessary to diagnose back pain. However, a physician may perform some diagnostic tests to determine the cause or origins of the pain, as well as its severity. If a tumor, infection, fracture, or any other specific condition is suspected, a physician may recommend: x-rays, MRI or CT scans, bone scans, and nerve studies such as electromyography.
18484	Diagnosis is made by blood tests and analysis including blood pressure monitoring to prevent septic shock
18488	When a person suspects meningitis, the number of symptoms present and the findings of several physical exams confirm the disease. Once confirmed, antibiotics should be administered immediately since the condition may worsen quickly. Physical exams include an x-ray of the chest and blood tests to determine kidney and liver function, electrolytes, complete blood count and inflammatory markers. However, the most important exam that confirms or rules out meningitis is the analysis of the fluid that surrounds the spinal cord and the brain known as "cerebrospinal fluid". This is determined through lumbar puncture.
18490	Review and assessment of any history of vaginal infections or sexually transmitted diseases. Pelvic examination can be vital in initial diagnosis. A sample of a cervical or vaginal discharge for laboratory analysis is essential to confirm the kind of vaginosis and the severity of the infection.
18491	Bad breath can be easily diagnosed through its symptoms. Persistent bad breath may need further diagnostic tests to determine the exact dental or medical cause.
18493	The condition can be diagnosed based on the symptoms shown by the patient.
18494	A baker's cyst is a relatively simple cyst which can be detected with an ultrasound or a magnetic resonance imaging or MRI scan.
18496	Diagnosis includes examination of patient's history and physical examination including undergoing laboratory examination and pathological examination.
18498	Baldness can be diagnosed based on a physical examination of the patient, along with his/her family history and medical history. Some tests used to confirm diagnosis are: a simple pull test to show how much hair can come out from pulling; analysis of skin scrapings to identify any infections; a punch biopsy to determine scarring; as well as other screening tests to determine any related diseases.
18498	Baldness can be diagnosed based on a physical examination of the patient, along with his/her family history and medical history. Some tests used to confirm diagnosis are: a simple pull test to show how much hair can come out from pulling; analysis of skin scrapings to identify any infections; a punch biopsy to determine scarring; as well as other screening tests to determine any related diseases.
18501	Ballooning mitral valve syndrome may be diagnosed at any age through a routine stethoscope examination of the patient's heart. To confirm the diagnosis, an echocardiogram may be done.
18505	Barber's itch may be easily diagnosed by looking at the affected individual's skin. If the infected area is resistant to treatment, a physician may analyze skin culture to check for bacteria.
18512	A standard physical exam can usually lead to a diagnosis of Barlow's syndrome. If a physician hears a characteristic clicking sound or heart murmur through a stethoscope, Barlow's syndrome is almost invariably present. An electrocardiograph or ECG may be done to confirm the diagnosis.
18513	Diagnosis is made through physical examination and review of patient's medical history and undergoing blood tests.
18514	Barotitis media can be diagnosed by a physical examination of the affected ear, usually with the help of a lighted instrument to look inside the ear. A slight outward or inward bulging usually indicates barotitis media.
18515	Barotrauma can be diagnosed based on clinical symptoms as well as by determining the patient's medical history and recent activities. Exposure to rapid changes in pressure usually leads to a suspicion of barotrauma.
18516	Endoscopy involves inserting an endoscope with a camera on tip to search for precancerous cell changes when Barrett's esophagus is suspected. Tissue samples of abnormal areas are examined under the microscope to detect goblet-shaped cells that are not usually seen on the esophagus to confirm diagnosis. Repeat endoscopy one year after diagnosis to screen for cell changes that can indicate progression of the disease.
18519	Bartholin cyst is usually diagnosed based on a pelvic examination and clinical manifestations. A physician may take a swab of the affected cervix to screen for accompanying bacterial infections. If cancer is suspected, a biopsy may also be recommended.
18520	A pelvic examination will reveal enlarged and tender Bartholin's gland. However, further tests may be required to eliminate other problems such as gonorrhea and other forms of STD. Biopsy are often conducted to have a definitive diagnosis.
18522	Chronic vomiting Abuse of diuretic medications (water pills) Magnesium deficiency Bartter syndrome can also elevate renin and aldosterone levels on patients.
18523	In making a diagnosis of basal cell cancer, initial diagnostic steps may include checking the patient's medical history as well as examining the affected skin area. When basal cell cancer is suspected, a physician usually does a biopsy to examine the affected skin sample under a microscope. A pathologist will then make a diagnosis based on the biopsy.
18524	Biopsy - where tissue is taken for pathological study, performed with local anesthesia. Surgery is done in small cuts for large ones biopsy is done before surgery if it is malignant.
18526	Basal joint arthritis may be diagnosed through physical examination and standard imaging techniques to examine the affected joint. X-rays, bone scans, computerized tomography scans, magnetic resonance imaging scans, and arthrography are some of the most common diagnostic methods used.
18528	The disease can be determined by examining the presence of the symptoms, genetic counseling and MRI.
18530	The Body Dysmorphic Disorder Questionnaire (BDDQ) as well as the Body Dysmorphic Disorder Examination (BDDE) are the two most common diagnostic tools used by psychiatrists and psychologists in BDD diagnosis. These tests evaluate the patient's preoccupation and perception of his/her own appearance, degree of self-consciousness, tendency to overvalue physical looks in determining self-worth, anti-social tendencies, etc.
18532	Blood tests, x-rays or examination of parts of the nail in the laboratory are among the diagnostic tests depending on what other symptoms exist.
18535	The disease can be diagnosed by genetic testing.
18536	A physician will typically ask questions about the child's medical history as well as bed-wetting pattern. In some cases, a physical exam will be done to screen for infection or diabetes. If anatomical abnormalities are suspected, an x-ray or other imaging tests may be recommended.
18537	History of exposure to bedbugs. Physical examination and evaluation of the bitten areas to rule out bites caused by other insects like fleas, body lices and scabies to arrive at a diagnosis of bedbug bites.
18538	Urine analysis and culture to test kidney problems. Biopsy for chronic bedsores by removing a small tissue sample for complete bacterial evaluation
18539	Evaluation of breathing or airway difficulties and widespread rash is vital in diagnosing the condition. Physical examination in combination with vital signs evaluation will be helpful in determining the treatment necessary.
18542	A medical expert makes the diagnosis when typical symptoms appear in a person who lives in or has been to an area where the disease is common. Because the bacteria causing the treponematoses and syphilis are morphologically and serologically similar, a person with one of these infections can test positive for syphilis. Standard tests cannot distinguish between any of the treponematoses and syphilis.
18543	Bell's palsy is diagnosed through exclusion, by eliminating other reasonable possibilities. Therefore, no specific cause can be ascertained. Bell's palsy is commonly referred to as idiopathic or cryptogenic, meaning its causes are unknown. Being a disease that belongs to the residual diagnostic category, the Bell's Palsy diagnosis likely spans different conditions which the current level of medical knowledge cannot distinguish. Studies show that 45% of patients are not referred to a specialist, which suggests that Bell's palsy is considered by physicians to be a diagnosis that is easy to manage. There is a significant number of cases that have been misdiagnosed. This is unsurprising from a diagnosis of exclusion, which depends on a thorough investigation of all the symptoms of the patient.
18544	A CT or MRI scan is necessary to characterize the anatomy of this tumor and determine its size, location, and consistency. The CT scan will usually show distortion of third and lateral ventricles with displacement of anterior and middle cerebral arteries. Histologic diagnosis combined with tissue biopsy will normally reveal an infiltrative character suggestive of the slow growing capacity of the tumor. It may be cavitating, pseudocyst-forming, or noncavitating. Its appearance is usually white-gray, firm, and almost indistinguishable from normal white matter.
18545	Benign or mild hypotonia is often diagnosed through a series of exercises designed to assess the child's developmental progress, or his observation of physical interactions. Since a hypotonic child finds it difficult to decipher his spatial location, he may have some coping mechanisms that are quite recognizable, such as locking the knees while trying to walk. One common sign of affected infants is a tendency to observe the physical activity of those around them for a long time before attempting to imitate these actions, due to frustration over early failures.
18548	Diagnosis of BFS is a "diagnosis of exclusion" in which other likely causes for the twitching (mostly forms of neuropathy, such as borreliosis neuropathy, motor neuron diseases, etc) must be eliminated before BFS can be assumed. An important diagnostic tool for BFS is the electromyography (EMG). Since BFS appears to cause no actual nerve damage, as seen on the EMG, a completely normal EMG (or one where the only abnormality seen are the twitching) largely eliminates more serious disorders and strongly suggests BFS.
18549	The condition is diagnosed by CT scans as well as lumbar puncture.
18551	Diagnosis of symptoms and history of enlarged prostate in the family is vital. Digital rectal exam can determine an enlarged prostate and signs of prostate cancer. Urine test can help rule out infection and other conditions producing the same symptoms.
18552	To diagnose benign prostatic hyperplasia, the physician may do a rectal examination to reveal the enlarged prostate. Blood tests are also performed for differential diagnosis and rule out other conditions like prostatic malignancy. Testicles, kidneys and prostate are also examined using ultrasound.
18553	Berdon's Syndrome is difficult to diagnose before the baby's birth. Abnormal internal organs may be seen on fetal ultrasound, but it may not be clear that the child has Berdon's Syndrome, unless the child had a sibling with the disorder. Once the baby is born, physical examination and ultrasound can determine if it has been affected with the disorder.
18554	Bereavement can be diagnosed by counseling as well as strict observance of the attitudes of the person who lost a loved one.
18555	Diagnosis of Berger's disease starts with a medical history and physical exam. Some patients seek care when they notice blood in their urine right after a sore throat begins. A urinalysis may be done to show blood and protein in the urine. A blood test may also be done to measure the level of IgA antibodies, which is higher than usual in about half of people with this condition. A biopsy of the kidney is usually needed to confirm the diagnosis and determine its severity.
18558	Diagnostic tests for this disease include blood serum examination and measurement of glycoproteins. Platelet function tests are also conducted for diagnostic studies.
18564	Antenatally, the condition is suspected by the combination of anhydramnios (from 17 weeks) and an empty fetal bladder, starting from as early as 14 weeks. Close inspection of the renal areas is often hampered by the oligohydramnios and the 'crumpled' position adopted by affected fetuses, and care should be taken to avoid the mistaken diagnosis of perirenal fat and large fetal adrenals in the place of absent kidneys. The differential diagnosis is from severe uteroplacental insufficiency and obstructive uropathy, preterm rupture of membranes, or bilateral multicystic or polycystic kidneys. Vaginal sonography with high-frequency, high-resolution probes can be utilized in these cases. Failure to visualize the renal arteries with color Doppler is another important factor to the diagnosis in doubtful cases, both with bilateral and unilateral agenesis. Prenatal diagnosis of unilateral renal agenesis can be difficult because there are no major features, such as anhydramnios and empty bladder, to alert the ultrasonographer to the fact that one or both of the kidneys is absent.
18565	Tenderness during an abdominal exam usually indicates bile duct cancer. For a definite diagnosis, a physician may perform an abdominal CT scan, an abdominal ultrasound, an abdominal x-ray, plus a CBC to screen for elevated white blood cell count.
18566	Bile reflux can be easily diagnosed based on clinical symptoms. However, distinguishing between acid reflux and bile reflux may prove more difficult. To differentiate between these two very similar conditions, the following tests may be done: endoscopy, ambulatory acid tests, and esophageal impedance.
18568	The diagnosis of PBC should be based on a combination of historical, laboratory, serological and histological criteria. In general, patients are middle aged women who complain of pruritus early and jaundice late. Patients that present late in the course of their disease may also have symptoms of cirrhosis and hepatic failure. Many patients are referred for examination of an isolated elevated serum alkaline phosphatase activity on laboratory testing for other purposes. Essentially all patients have high serum alkaline phosphatase and gamma-glutamyltranspeptidase activities. The serum IgM concentration is almost always heightened.
18569	To date, binge-eating disorder has not been officially classified as a mental disorder. Some experts believe it is a form of bulimia, while others think it is a distinct entity. Diagnostic tests to determine binge-eating disorder are similar to those of other forms of eating disorder, including: a standard physical exam to check vital signs and measure height and weight; laboratory tests to check cholesterol levels; psychological evaluation to determine the patient's mental and emotional wellbeing; as well as other studies to determine any health consequences of the disorder.
18571	Diagnosis is made through physical examination and observation of patient's medical history including undergoing laboratory examinations to determine the Serum Ammonia level, Plasma Carnitine Levels and Urine Ketones level.
18573	Diagnosis is based on the experiences of the patient as reported as well as abnormalities in behavior reported by family members, friends or co-workers, followed by secondary signs observed by a clinician in a clinical assessment. These depend on both the presence and duration of certain signs and symptoms the patient is displaying. An initial assessment may include a comprehensive history and physical examination by a physician. Although no biological tests can confirm bipolar disorder, tests are carried out to exclude medical illnesses which may rarely present with psychiatric symptoms. These include blood tests measuring TSH for basic electrolytes and serum calcium to rule out a metabolic disturbance, to exclude hypo- or hyperthyroidism, full blood count including ESR to rule out a systemic infection or chronic disease, and serology to exclude syphilis or HIV infection. Two commonly ordered investigations are EEG so as not to include epilepsy, and a CT scan of the head to exclude brain lesions. There are several psychiatric illnesses which may present with similar symptoms, including schizophrenia, brief drug-induced psychosis, drug intoxication, schizophreniform disorder and borderline personality disorder.
18574	Diagnosis of bird flu is based on clinical presentations and knowledge of possible exposure to contaminated regions or contact with infected poultry in areas with recent virus outbreaks. Swabs may be taken from the patient's throat and nose for laboratory analysis.
18575	Presentation and appearance of birthmarks can confirm diagnosis and classification of birthmark type.
18576	The event of the Black Death was only recorded by historians, and recent findings show other reasons for the plague contrary to the Yersinia pestis infection.
18577	Diagnosis includes physical examination of the patient including examination of the patient's history. In some cases a CT Scan and an X-ray may be used to confirm and known the extent of the black eye.
18578	Patient's history to coal dust exposure. Chest X-ray can detect characteristic lung spots caused by coal dusts and black lung disease before symptoms appear. Pulmonary function test can help in diagnosis.
18579	There are no diagnostic tests necessary to determine blackheads. A dermatologist can easily detect blackheads by examining a patient's face and/or affected skin areas.
18580	A physical exam is an initial diagnostic step to determine the presence of bladder calculi. Other tests to confirm the diagnosis include: urinalysis, cystoscopy, x-ray, intravenous pyelogram, ultrasound, and computerized tomography (CT) scan.
18581	Cystoscopy involves inserting a cystoscope in the urethra to get a view of the inside of the bladder and urethra. Urine cytology is carried out to check presence of cancer cells. Computerized Tomography (CT) scan and Magnetic Resonance Imaging can provide the doctor a clearer view of the bladder and urethra.
18582	A complete medical exam will help diagnose loss of bladder control or urinary incontinence. Some diagnostic tests used include: a bladder diary to determine urination behavior or patterns; a urinalysis to analyze urine samples; and a blood test to check for various substances related to incontinence. Some specialized testing may also be done to determine any underlying cause, including: postvoid residual (PVR) measurement; pelvic ultrasound; stress test; urodynamic testing; cystogram; and cystoscopy.
18583	Bladder infections are diagnosed based on clinical presentations, medical history, and a number of diagnostic tests, including: urine analysis, cystoscopy, and imaging tests such as an ultrasound and x-ray.
18584	Tests used to determine bladder inflammation include: urine tests, potassium sensitivity tests, and cystoscopy. In addition, Current research efforts are geared towards developing noninvasive procedures for a more definite diagnosis of bladder inflammation.
18585	The best way to diagnose bladder cancer is through urine cytology and transurethral (through the urethra) cystoscopy. Urine cytology can be obtained in excreted urine or at the time of the cystoscopy (bladder washing). Cytology is very specific may suffer from low sensitivity. There are newer urine bound markers for the diagnosis of bladder neoplasm. These markers are more sensitive but not as thorough as urine cytology. They cost much more than a cytology as well.
18586	Diagnosis is made through physical examination and undergoing laboratory tests such as urinary tests, and blood tests.
18587	A physical examination may reveal urologic conditions such as an enlarged prostate. A urinalysis or a urine culture may be done to detect any infections. In addition, a bladder x-ray or cystoscopy can be done to detect the presence of bladder stones.
18588	A pelvic exam is usually done to determine a prolapsed bladder. The presence of the characteristic bulge usually confirms the diagnosis.
18589	To diagnose blastocystis hominis infections, the following diagnostic tests may be done: stool or fecal exam; endoscopy; blood tests; and standard imaging tests to scan for potential swelling or scarring of the internal organs.
18591	Once suspected, diagnosis of blastomycosis can usually be confirmed by demonstration of the particular broad based budding organisms in sputum or tissues by KOH prep, cytology, or histology. Tissue biopsy of skin or other organs may be needed in order to diagnose extra-pulmonary disease. Commercially available urine antigen testing seems to be quite sensitive in suggesting the diagnosis in cases where the organism is not readily detected. While culture of the organism remains the definitive diagnostic standard, its slow growing nature can result to delays in treatment of up to several weeks. However, sometimes blood and sputum cultures may not be useful in detecting blastomycosis. A lung biopsy is another option for the diagnosis of blastomycosis, and results will be shown promptly.
18592	Endoscopy - for direct viewing of the blood site Barium x-rays CT scan Angiography - to highlight blood vessels Radionuclide scanning - to locate sites of acute bleeding
18593	Diagnosis can be done during treatment.
18597	Initial diagnostic tests to determine blind loop syndrome are abdominal x-rays or abdominal CT scans. Additional tests are often recommended to screen for potential bacterial growth. Other tests that may lead to diagnosis include: barium x-ray of the small intestine; hydrogen breath test; D-xylose breath test; bile acid breath test; quantitative fecal fat test; and small intestine aspirate and fluid culture.
18598	Ophthalmic evaluation by an eye specialist to assess the extent of vision loss. Neurological evaluation and imaging can provide diagnosis and possible treatment for the condition.
18600	Diagnosis is by checking on the symptoms as well as X-ray findings of the lungs.
18601	Diagnosis is done by studying the features presented by the patient.
18602	Doctors try to identify the cause, so that appropriate measures can be used. Symptoms may suggest the cause of blood platelet disorders. A fever might suggest an infection. An enlarged spleen, felt during a physical examination, suggests a disorder that causes the spleen to grow in size.
18603	Blood poisoning can only be diagnosed during the onset of septicemia.
18604	High blood pressure can be diagnosed by measuring the patient's blood pressure with an inflatable arm cuff and a pressure-measuring gauge. In addition, the guidelines outlined by the National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute also help in diagnosis.
18605	Low blood pressure can usually be determined through a blood pressure gauge. To identify the underlying cause, the following diagnostic methods may be used: blood tests, electrocardiogram, echocardiogram, stress test, valsalva maneuver, and tilt-table test.
18612	Blood serum infested with body lice is diagnosed via a laboratory examination called the Weill-Felix test.
18613	There are no diagnostic steps available for body odor and sweating, which can usually be determined based on physical manifestations.
18615	Boils can be diagnosed by doctors by looking at your skin, but sometimes they take a sample of pus to check for the bacteria it contains.
18616	Imaging tests including X-ray, CT scan, ultrasound, and MRI can help the doctor to assess the condition. Bone scan to provide image of the inside of the bone
18617	If bone infection is suspected, a physician may perform a physical exam and feel for any tenderness, swelling or warmth in the affected area. To determine the type of infection, the following tests may be recommended: blood tests; bone biopsy; x-rays and other imaging procedures.
18618	Bone loss can be detected with the following diagnostic tests and procedures: dual energy X-ray absorptiometry (DEXA); ultrasound; and quantitative computerized tomography (CT) scanning.
18619	To confirm the presence of bone neoplasm, routine diagnostic studies must be done on the patient. These tests include a CBC, serum protein electrophoresis, chemistry panel, sedimentation rate, urinalysis, arthritis panel, and plain films of the involved bones. A skeletal survey may need to be performed. To search for a primary tumor, bone marrow examinations, prostatic examination, PSA titer, thyroid scans, barium enema, intravenous pyelogram, chest x-ray, upper GI series, mammography, and lymph node biopsy may be required. CT scans may be helpful in helping differentiate the mass or the swelling. A needle biopsy or exploratory surgery and bone biopsy may need to be performed before deciding on what surgical approach should be undertaken to treat the patient.
18620	The presence of bone spurs may be confirmed through x-ray exams and other imaging tests, such as computerized tomography (CT) scans and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scans.
18621	Algorhythmic diagnosis of signs and symptoms based on psychological evaluation criteria provide diagnosis of Borderline Personality Disorder.
18622	Nasopharyngeal swab is used for Gram stain, Bordet-Gengou growth plate with cephalosporin that shows mercury-drop colonies.
18623	Diagnosis includes laboratory examinations to determine the virus, creatinine kinase, undergoing white cell count and undergoing chest x-ray and ECG.
18626	Microscopic identification of eggs found in the stool is the basis of specific diagnosis. Eggs are typically numerous and can be demonstrated without concentration techniques. Examination of proglottids passed in the stool can also be of diagnostic value. Diagnostic tools include microscopy and morphologic comparison with other intestinal parasites. Though it is hard to identify the eggs or proglottids to the species level, the difference among them is of little medical importance because, like most adult tapeworms in the intestine, all members of this genus respond to the same drugs.
18629	There are no live tests for the moment for animals that are infected the only way to diagnose the disease is after the animal died.
18630	Physical and visual examination of the anus to check for nerve damage. Digital rectal exam and anal manometry to assess the strength of the sphincter muscle and check for abnormalities in the rectal and anal area.
18631	Diagnosis includes blood testing, X-rays of the abdomen,ultrasound and CT Scan. Biopsy, Radiology tests, lapaoscopy and colonospcopy may also be used to confirm the condition.
18633	Boxer's ear can be diagnosed via physical examination, CT scan and MRI.
18634	Electromyography verifies the health of the nerves serving the muscle. Nerve conduction studies involve the use of patch-like electrode evaluates impulses conducted through a nerve. Magnetic Resonance Imaging and Computerized Tomography Myelography provides a detailed picture of nerve roots and spinal cord.
18636	Bradycardia is typically diagnosed when a distinctly slower pulse or low blood pressure is detected during a physical exam. For treatment purposes, physicians will most likely attempt to identify the underlying conditions using the following diagnostic tools: electrocardiogram (ECG); event monitor; and blood tests.
18637	Bradycardia-tachycardia syndrome is typically diagnosed based on the results of an electrocardiography (ECG) and standard imaging tests.
18639	Diagnosis include imaging tests such as MRI and CT scans A cerebral arteriogram and a spinal tap may also be conducted.
18639	A brain aneurysm is rarely diagnosed until it raptures or is detected accidentally through an unrelated imaging test. If there is family history of brain aneurysm, physicians will usually suggest screening scans such as: computerized tomography (CT) scan; magnetic resonance imaging (MRI); and cerebral arteriogram. A spinal tap may also be done if the patient shows symptoms of ruptured aneurysm.
18640	To diagnose the type and location of the brain attack, the following steps may be taken: physical examination and tests; carotid ultrasonography; arteriography; computerized tomography (CT) scan; magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) test; and an echocardiography.
18641	Cerebral hemorrhage can be diagnosed during treatment.
18643	Diagnosis includes examination of patient's history of infections particularly those related to the middle ear, sinus, heart and lungs; physical examination, computerized tomography or CT Scan, Arteriography and examination of cerebrospinal fluids.
18644	Diagnosis includes undergoing CBC, chest X-rays, CT Scan, MRI Scan and VDRL Tests to rule out other medical conditions such as nervous system syphilis among others.
18646	Computerized Tomography scan involves injection of a special dye to create a clearer, tow-dimensional image of the brain. MRI scan are useful in diagnosing brain tumors. Angiogram shows the location of blood vessels present in and near the brain tumor. Biopsy is the most reliable procedure to confirm diagnosis of brain tumor.
18647	Diagnosis includes examination and observance of the symptoms as they manifest. Biopsy and Colonoscopy however may be used to observed and rule out other medical conditions.
18650	The diagnosis of BOR is done using clinical criteria. Molecular genetic testing of the EYA1 gene detects mutations in an estimated 40% of individuals with the clinical diagnosis of BOR syndrome.
18652	The diagnosis can be done by studying the symptoms present in the patient.
18653	The disease can be diagnosed based on outbreaks and presence of the symptoms shown by the patients.
18654	Breast self-examination to detect early signs of breast cancer. This is done by feeling and touching certain areas of the breast to assess any change in form or presence of lump. Diagnostic and screening mammograms to check changes and abnormalities in breast tissues.`
18655	The condition can be diagnosed by means of physical or self-conducted mammary exam by the lactating mother.
18656	Breast infections may be diagnosed based on clinical symptoms and a physical examination. A physician will also commonly check for breast abscess, which may developd as a complication of breast infection.
18657	Initial diagnostic step for breast pain is getting the patient's medical history and examining clinical symptoms. The physician may ask questions relating to the location, severity, or frequency of the pain; along with questions about current medications taken and other symptoms experienced. For older women, a mammography may be required to check for abnormalities not seen during physical examination.
18660	If an ankle break is suspected, the physician will conduct a physical exam and look for signs of swelling, tenderness, deformity, or open wounds. For a more definite diagnosis, an X-ray can be done on the affected area.
18661	Diagnosis for a broken arm includes a physical examination to look for tenderness, swelling, deformities, or an open wound. An imaging test such as an X-ray or a computerized tomography (CT) scan is usually done to assess the extent of the fracture as well as determine its exact location.
18662	A physician can usually diagnose a broken blood vessel in the eye just by looking at the affected eye. There are no other diagnostic tests required.
18663	A physician will usually examine the affected hand and look for swollen, tender, or deformed areas. Certain tests to gauge the patient's range of motion and grip strength may also be done. In addition, X-rays and other imaging tests are recommended for a more definite diagnosis.
18664	A broken hip can usually be diagnosed based on physical symptoms. To confirm the diagnosis or to evaluate the extent of the injury, an X-ray may be done along with other standard imaging tests.
18665	An X-ray is the most common diagnostic test available in determining a broken or fractured leg. In some cases, more-detailed imaging may be done through computerized tomography (CT) scans, bone scans, and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scans.
18666	Diagnosis for a broken nose is based on physical manifestations. A physician will typically ask questions about the injury as well as assess the extent of the trauma. In most cases, x-rays and other imaging studies are necessary for a definite diagnosis.
18667	Treatment for broken ribs is mostly focused on managing pain and symptoms until the fracture fully heals. Self-care measures such as resting, applying ice to reduce pain and swelling, and taking over-the-counter pain medications are also recommended. Sometimes, compression wraps or elastic bandages are wrapped around to chest to immobilize the area. In general, fractured ribs heal in about 1-2 months.
18668	Bronchial asthma is diagnosed using spirometry, a test that measures the flow of oxygen into the lungs.
18669	The diagnosis of bronchiectasis is based on the review of clinical history and distinct patterns in high-resolution CT scan findings. Such patterns include "tree-in-bud" abnormalities and cysts that have definable borders. In a small study, CT findings of bronchiectasis and multiple small nodules were reported to have a sensitivity of 80%, specificity of 87%, and accuracy of 80% for the detection of bronchiectasis. Bronchiectasis may also be diagnosed without CT scan confirmation if clinical history clearly shows frequent, respiratory infections, as well confirmation of an underlying problem via blood work and sputum culture samples.
18670	Wheezing and prolonged breathing out can be detected by the doctor with the use of stethoscope. Chest X-ray has the capacity to aid visual checking for inflammation of the lung airways and to detect pneumonia. Mucus sample test uses a nasopharyngeal swab to identify the virus causing bronchiolitis. Blood tests are used to measure white blood cell levels as an indication that the body is fighting infection.
18671	Lung biopsy continues to be method preferred for establishing a diagnosis. The video-assisted thoracoscopic procedure has become the established technique of diagnosis. In a study of 49 patients who underwent the video-assisted thoracoscopic procedure for interstitial lung disease, the average length of the operation was 45 minutes, the chest tube was inserted for 1.3 days, there were no deaths, there were no reexplorations, and none were converted to an open thoracotomy.
18672	Chest X-ray will show image of the lung for the doctor to assess the condition. Sputum culture is a test performed to check if there is bacteria present in the sputum expelled.
18673	A physical examination will often show decreased intensity of breath sounds, wheeze (rales) and prolonged expiration. Most doctors depend on the presence of a persistent dry or wet cough as evidence of bronchitis. Pulmonary Function Tests (PFT) (or spirometry) must be performed in all patients affected with chronic cough. An FEV1/FVC ratio below 0.7 that is not fully reversible after bronchodilator therapy shows the presence of COPD, that requires more aggressive therapy and brings with it a more severe prognosis than simple chronic bronchitis. A chest X-ray that shows hyperinflation; collapse and consolidation of lung areas would support a diagnosis of pneumonia. Some conditions that look like bronchitis may be indicated by chest radiography. A blood test could indicate some sort of inflammation, as indicated by a raised white blood cell count and elevated C-reactive protein. Further obstruction to the airways is the result of more goblet cells in the small airways. This is generally typical of chronic bronchitis Although infection is not the reason or cause of chronic bronchitis it is seen to help in sustaining the bronchitis.
18675	Diagnosis can be done by blood serum tests to determine the amount of iron found in the bloodstream. Other conditions that affect bronze diabetes are examined as well,
18680	Dental exam can include observing the teeth for signs of bruxism like worn down tooth enamel and broken dental restorations and tooth sensitivity.
18684	Bulging disks can be diagnosed through MRI.
18686	Because this skin disorder largely differs and vary in the degree of symptoms, the diagnosis is mainly done through performing skin biopsy. Blood tests can also help in getting amore definitive diagnosis.
18687	To diagnose bundle branch block, an electrocardiogram or an ECG may be done. This is a noninvasive procedure which records the heart's activity. Abnormalities in the wave patterns of electrical impulses usually indicate bundle branch block.
18688	A bunion can be easily diagnosed by looking at the affected foot. For a definite diagnosis, an X-ray may be done on the foot to determine the cause of the bunion as well as assess its severity.
18689	Diagnosis includes undergoing CBC, red cell fragility tests, urinalysis, chemistry panel, VDRL Tests, chest x-ray and Ct Scan.
18690	doctor will review patient's medical history, as well as conduct keen examination of the your mouth and ask you to describe your symptoms, Diagnostics tests may also include blood tests, blot count, allergy exams and oral biopsy.
18691	Bursitis can be diagnosed based on physical symptoms and medical history. Although X-rays cannot confirm the diagnosis, they can effectively help rule out other possible causes of the patient's discomfort. Other diagnostic tests for bursitis include blood tests and fluid analysis of the inflamed bursa.
18692	Hip bursitis can be diagnosed via x-ray images as well as physical and symptomatic observations in the hip area.
18693	The first step in knee bursitis diagnosis is to determine the cause of the knee pain. Questions associated with the specific location or severity and frequency of the pain may be asked during checkup. The knee will be inspected and symptoms noted. For a more definite diagnosis, an X-ray or other imaging studies may be required.
18694	X-ray imaging is used to detect calcified joints.
18695	Diagnosis of this condition involves pulmonary function tests and chest x-rays.
18696	Diagnosis of C syndrome is largely dependent on the symptoms observed by doctors during physical examination as well as a study of the medical history of the patient.
18697	If Clostridium difficile is suspected, the following tests may be done to confirm the diagnosis: stool test; colon examination; and imaging tests such as a computerized tomography (CT) scan.
18699	Patients may undergo some tissue biopsy and other diagnostic tests as well as radiographic study to provide a more definitive diagnosis.
18700	Diagnosis includes undergoing tests like the Ultrafast computed tomography scan to take multiple view of the heart and to measure the amount of calcium that may build up in the heart and arteries.
18701	Diagnosis includes undergoing tests like the Ultrafast computed tomography scan to take multiple view of the heart and to measure the amount of calcium that may build up in the heart and arteries.
18703	Though there is a clinical diagnosis for Calciphylaxis, there is no diagnostic test for the disease. The known characteristics are ischaemic skin lesions and the appearance of necrotic skin lesions. These are considered suspected diagnosis and can be confirmed by conducting a skin biopsy. The bone scintigraphy may show an increased tracer accumulation in the soft tissues as well as an arterial calcification and occlusion in the absence of vasculitis. There is also no specific treatment for Calciphylaxis. There are acceptable treatments however but none is internationally recognized as standard care. Among those, include dialysis, intensive wound care, adequate pain control, urgent parathyroidectomy and correction of the underlying plasma calcium and phosphorus abnormalities.
18704	Though diagnostic workup may vary with the stone type, there are general ways to come up with a diagnosis. In some cases, clinical history and physical examination can be sufficient while others need imaging studies. There are stone types that can only be detected on X-ray and CT scan but many can be detected by ultrasound. Laboratory testing can be conducted to identify contributing factors in the formation of stones. In surgeries, some stones can be directly recovered and sent to a laboratory to analyze its content.
18707	Stool culture is done by means of getting stool sample to reveal and confirm diagnosis of Campylobacteriosis.
18709	The disease can be identified by a simple prenatal blood test. It screens for the missing enzyme or for mutations in the gene that controls aspartoacylase. A child may only be affected if both parents must be carriers of the defective gene. When both parents carry the Canavan gene mutation, there is a 25% chance with each pregnancy that the child will have Canavan disease.
18710	Signs or symptoms that appear or found through screening do not lead to definitive diagnosis, which usually require a pathologist's opinion. X-rays, blood tests, CT scans and endoscopy are among the medical tests people with suspected cancers undergo. Performing a biopsy or surgery are procedures where a tissue can be obtained for histological examination. Said examination can identify the type of cell that is spreading as well as its histological grade.
18713	The presence of the symptoms of canine distempers along with neurological and respiratory signs that are found in an unvaccinated dog can strongly suggest canine distemper. To gain a more definitive diagnosis, conjunctival cells of the dog are usually examined.
18714	Visual examination is enough to confirm diagnosis of canker sores.
18716	Chest radiology - reveals several, round, visible nodules, commonly 0.5-2.0 cm in diameter, that may cavitate and look like tuberculosis. Lung function tests - shows a combined restraining and disruptive ventilatory deficiency with a lung volume loss. Permanent airflow limitation may also happen and decreases gas transfer factor. Rheumatoid factor, antinuclear antibodies and non-organ unambiguous antibodies - may also show on the serum. Asbestosis and silicosis - should be measured in the disparity with TB.
18718	If carbon monoxide poisoning is suspected, the most common way of confirming the diagnosis is by performing a blood test to check carbon monoxide levels in the patient's blood.
18719	Measuring of plasma levels of the produced glycoprotein Chromogranin A together with 24 hours measuring of urine levels of 5-HIAA (5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid) which is a result of serotonin breakdown. Octreoscan - An imaging method used for the localization of both main metastasis and lesions. In this method the indium labeled somatostatin analogues are utilized in scintigraphy for locating tumors that conveys somatostatin receptors. CT scan - usually one will see a spider-like/crab like transformation in the mesentery because of the fibrosis from the secretion of serotonin. PET scan - assesses for augmented glucose metabolism, can also help in localizing the carcinoid laceration or metastases evaluation. Prognosis The prognosis varies from patient to patient. It varies from a 95% 5 year survival for disease that are localized to a 20% 5 year survival for those with metastases of the liver. The common survival time from the start of the treatment of octreotide has augmented to about 12 years.
18720	Carcinoid tumors may be difficult to diagnose because they do not show symptoms in early stages. In most cases, carcinoids are discovered during a routine test or procedure for an unrelated condition. Diagnostic tests used to detect carcinoid tumors include: blood tests; urine tests; computerized tomography scans; and a biopsy.
18724	Cardiac syndrome X is diagnosed by appropriate stress testing and a coronary angiogram to exclude other possible conditions that cause chest pain.
18725	Initial diagnosis is quite tricky as the symptoms are often mistaken with heart failure and other differential diagnosis. Hypotension and muffled heart sound are among the main basis for diagnosis and through radiograph that will demonstrate any collapsed ventricle or enlarged pericardium.
18726	The diagnosis of CFC syndrome is made through observations made of the known features and symptoms of the syndrome. Magnetic resonance imaging or MRI may be used to produce ultrasound imaging of the brain and heart to provide a more definitive diagnosis.
18727	If cardiomyopathy is suspected, the diagnosis is based on a person's: symptoms and medical history; family history of cardiomyopathy, heart failure, or sudden cardiac arrest; physical exam; and results on diagnostic tests and procedures.
18729	Diagnosis of Carney complex is done through physical examination with spotty skin pigmentation considered to be one of the primary indicators. The presence of myxomas as well as the abnormal over activity of the endocrine gland is also a good sign.
18730	The deficiency is diagnosed through complete physical examination and laboratory tests. An assessment of precise patient history and symptoms analysis is also done.
18731	Since symptoms and signs of the disorder may vary in different individuals, only a physician can provide sufficient diagnosis of the disorder through proper examination of symptoms.
18732	There are preferred examinations that play major roles in the disease's diagnosis. These include ultrasonography, nuclear scintigraphy, CT imaging, MRI, ERCP, and PTC. Laboratory exams are also vital, including liver function tests and bilirubin level analysis.
18733	Carotenemia may be diagnosed through simple observation, as well as examination of the skin. Clinical diagnostic methods also help identify the condition. With carotenemia diagnosis, it's vital to consider whether an underlying condition is causing carotenemia.
18734	Complete neurological and physical exam must be performed for diagnosis. This includes testing the vision, movement, mental function, and sensations. Test can include head CT or MRI, vascular ultrasound or MRA, cerebral angiography, and blood tests.
18735	Carpal tunnel syndrome is typically diagnosed through results of medical history, hand diagram, and physical exam. If severe symptoms are experienced, additional testing is required, such s nerve testing, X-rays, MRI, ultrasound, and others relevant tests.
18736	The syndrome being genetic in nature, an infant has it at birth. Diagnosis is founded on symptoms, such as skull appearance, face, toes, and fingers. There has been no special test developed to corroborate diagnosis.
18737	Castleman's disease can be diagnosed through several tests, although the unicentric type is frequently found incidentally. Tests that doctors can conduct to diagnose the disease include physical examination, imaging techniques, urine and blood tests, and lymph node biopsy.
18738	Cat eye syndrome is hereditary, so it comes with birth. Diagnosis is generally based on apparent symptoms. Genetic testing aids in confirming the existence of particular genetic defect of chromosome 22 that's connected to the syndrome.
18739	If a patient remembers if they were scratched or bitten, a doctor can diagnose the disease based on facts provided. If diagnosis is unclear, blood test can help doctors with the diagnosis.
18740	A complete diagnostic workup is often required to diagnose catatonic schizophrenia, including general psychiatric and medical assessments. A diagnosis of catatonic schizophrenia indicates that the catatonic symptoms are dominant in the patient, although he/she may also have other symptoms of schizophrenia that cannot be attributed to other disorders.
18741	The syndrome is detected through FISH or Fluorescence in Situ Hybridization with the use of DNA probes. This kind of genetic testing is extensively available for prenatal and clinical testing of the syndrome.
18742	A physician can generally diagnose the condition through physical exam. Checking with a specialist in genetics can help rule out additional problems associated with the syndrome.
18743	Myelo-CT and Myelography were formerly used for diagnosing the syndrome. Other methods used for diagnosis include amniofusion for cases connected with oligohydramnios, obstetric ultrasonography, and lumbosacral MRI is usually accepted today.
18744	Doctors can base their diagnosis on review of patient's medical history, bone scan, physical examination, X-rays, MRI, and sympathetic nervous system tests.
18745	The condition is diagnosed through physical examination. In cases of mixed or deep lesions, MRI or CT scan can be done to make sure that deeper structures aren't involved.
18746	Diagnosis of the condition is done clinically, combined with imaging studies that help confirm the clinical idea. Tests can also include sinus X-ray, MRI, and CT scan.
18747	Although Cayler Syndrome is sometimes easily diagnosed at birth, there are occasions wherein only doctors can diagnose the symptoms. Other heart defects may be related to Cayler Syndrome; these include ventricular septal defects, tetralogy of Fallot, atrial septal defects, asymmetrical face, renal anomalies, vertebral anomalies, or cardiac defect.
18749	Celiac disease can usually be diagnosed by conducting a blood test to screen for elevated levels of certain antibodies, such as anti-endomysium, anti-gliadin, and anti-tissue transglutaminase. An endoscopy and biopsy may also be done for further testing.
18750	Because symptoms are not enough in clearly determining celiac sprue, patients have to undergo a number of tests to rule out other diseases. However, if the patient does not consume gluten, the tests are not useful anymore. They will need to consume some gluten, about 10 grams a day, for a certain period of time in order to complete the studies. Blood tests are also helpful in diagnosing celiac sprue. Serology is a common tool in determining if a patient has celiac sprue, but this is only prior to an endoscopy needed to verify the results. A biopsy follows the endoscopy in order to fully confirm the overall results and rule out any other disease. Both the endoscopy and biopsy are done for the duodenum, although the severity of the affected parts vary.
18751	There is no diagnostic test necessary to determine cellulite. Cellulites can be easily identified by looking at the affected skin or area.
18752	Diagnosis of whether the syndrome's deformity is due to joint/bone disease or neurologic disease is generally simple; an X-ray of the feet or hands can be useful several congenital and acromegaly disorders. Referral to neurologic or orthopedic specialist is typically specified if neurologic or bone involvement is likely.
18754	Urinalysis will illustrate low concentration of the salt present in one's urine. Water restriction test allows the diagnosis of how well one's kidney works, as well as the amount of urine produced. Blood tests are also done to check for plasma sodium concentration.
18755	The illness diagnosed by means of MRI.
18757	Diagnostic steps to determine central sleep apnea may include: nocturnal polysomnography or nighttime monitoring of heart, brain, or lung activity and other associated functions; blood oxygen monitoring (oximetry); as well as portable breathing (cardiorespiratory) testing.
18758	Because muscle weakness can be caused by other medical conditions, such as neurological conditions and brain problems, proper diagnosis of the condition is necessary in ruling out other factors. The first step in diagnosis is undergoing an electrodiagnostic testing, sometimes known as electrophysiologic testing. The importance of this type of diagnostic procedure is that it rules out neuropathies from myopathies, because many of the symptoms are present in both conditions. This diagnostic process involves nerve conduction studies. These stimulate the peripheral motor and sensory nerves in order to study its response. A needle electromyography is also done, wherein thin electrodes are placed in muscle tissue, looking out for any anomalous activity. An analysis of the motor unit action potential shown in the electromyography is significant in determining the difference between a myography and a neuropathy. Once it is determined that the condition is a myopathy, muscle biopsy and genetics can help determine exactly what kind of myopathy is present.
18762	Cercarial dermatitis rashes may resemble those of chickenpox, poison ivy, impetigo, dermatitis, or even herpes. Diagnosis must first eliminate these other possible causes of the itch. Blood and skin tests are usually unable to detect the parasites that cause cercarial dermatitis.
18764	Cerebellar vermis agenesis is diagnosed by CT scan and MRI procedures.
18765	Cerebral abscesses are diagnosed by CT scan and MRI procedures. Needle biopsies meanwhile are conducted to identify the organism that caused the abscess.
18768	Magnetic resonance imaging or MRI is the most common form of diagnosing cerebral cavernous malformation, but a gradient-echo sequence is also needed in order to determine any lesions that the MRI may not detect. Many times, MRI's ordered by patients for other reasons can accidentally detect the lesions. These lesions can also be inconclusive, but finding it will result in more tests such as a magnetic resonance angiogram or cerebral angiogram.
18769	Cerebral edema can be diagnosed by CT scans.
18773	A doctor can diagnose the condition in several ways, including medical history, physical examination, and tests.
18775	Cerebrohepatorenal syndrome can be diagnosed by means of genetic testing as well as by studying the presence of the symptoms in the patient.
18776	CTX can be diagnosed via genetic testing and metabolic molecular examinations.
18777	The disease can be diagnosed through eye tests early on, since vision loss is one of the earliest symptoms of the disease. An eye exam is just the initial stage in diagnosing the disease, because the eye exam alone cannot be conclusive of CLN. If the tests results show suspect CLN, the child then takes neurological exams to undergo several other procedures. The tests for diagnosing the disease include tissue or skin sampling, electroencephalogram, electrical studies of the eyes, brain scans, and enzyme assays.
18778	Cerumen impaction can be diagnosed with a physical examination of the ear canal and eardrum using an otoscope, or an instrument with a light attached that allows a physician to look inside the canal.
18779	In order to determine if a patient has cervical cancer, several procedures must be done to get a complete diagnosis. This includes a pap smear and a biopsy of the cervix, which is a colposcopy.
18780	Cervical dystonia may be diagnosed based on clinical assessment of physical symptoms, usually by a neurologist. The patient's medical history and family history will also be taken into account. A definitive diagnosis can be obtained from: blood tests, urine tests, magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scans, genetic testing, and electromyography (EMG).
18781	Doctors examine the patient's history and symptoms by assessing neck flexibility and observing how the patient walks to see if the spinal nerve or spinal cord is compressed. Patients may also undergo imaging tests such as a neck or spinal X-ray; computerized tomography scan or magnetic resonance imaging; or myelogram.
18782	Patients may undergo a pelvic exam to check for redness of the cervix and evidence of discharge as well as to check whether the external genitalia look normal. Doctors may also perform a Pap test during which cervix cells are removed for a microscopic examination in the laboratory. A sample of the vaginal discharge may be taken to test for infections.
18784	A clinical diagnosis can help determine the condition. A causal agent is examined through many clinical and laboratory procedures, such as microscopic examinations, agent isolation, immunodiagnostic tests, and molecular biology.
18787	Chandler's Syndrome is said to exist when a person starts to see halos or streaks of white light, as well as pain that would last for a few days. The doctor would also find glaucoma, but no other symptoms may be felt during the development of the disease.
18797	Cherry hemangiomas will probably be diagnosed by your health care provider based on the appearance of their growth. A skin biopsy may be used to confirm the diagnosis although no further tests are usually necessary.
18799	To determine the cause of the patient's chest pain, doctors perform tests such as an electrocardiogram test, stress tests, blood tests, chest X-ray, nuclear scan, coronary catheterization, electron beam computerized tomography, magnetic resonance imaging, echocardiogram, or endoscopy. After a careful evaluation, doctors can often distinguish whether the chest pain is due to non-cardiac or cardiac causes.
18800	The doctor conducts a physical examination by feeling the breastbone for areas of tenderness or swelling. The patient is also asked to describe the pain and its influence. Sometimes chest X-rays or other imaging tests may be recommended to rule out other conditions.
18801	Since most symptoms of the condition may be associated with other disorders, the patient is referred to specialists to undergo thorough and appropriate tests. The patient's medical history is recorded and a complete physical examination is conducted. Doctors assess the patient's symptoms by asking the patient to describe them and, may conduct a magnetic resonance imaging scan of the skull if the cause is not apparent. MRI is the definitive diagnostic tool for the condition.
18804	Childhood asthma can be observed during attacks, given the premise that the patient has a weak heart or lungs.
18806	Diagnosis of the disease can be done by bone marrow sampling and hemoglobin tests.
18807	Diagnosis for childhood nephrotic syndrome includes urine analysis and other laboratory tests that may be accurate in diagnosis the problem.
18808	Patients are referred to a psychiatrist for a complete diagnostic workup which includes a complete medical, social, and family history. Patients may also undergo blood and brain-imaging tests to rule out other medical conditions. The patient and his or her parents as well as guardians are interviewed to assess any psychotic symptoms or behavioral changes. The patient is diagnosed as having schizophrenia only if his or her psychotic behaviors continue for at least six months with no other causes for the signs and symptoms.
18815	Primary sclerosing cholangitis can be diagnosed by imaging the bile duct under endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ERCP). Another method of diagnosing PSC is by magnetic resonance cholangiopancreatography (MRCP), which is used to get an image of the biliary tract. Other diagnostic tests involve full blood count, liver enzymes, electrolytes and blirubin levels.
18816	Cholecystitis is diagnosed after a patient exhibits the following results after a series of tests: Low grade fever Murphy's sign (tender right upper quadrant) For those with acute cholecystitis, diagnostic tests show results of: Epigastric pain Perforated peptic ulcer Acute peptic ulcer Amoebic liver abscess Acute pancreatitis Intestinal obstruction Chronic cholecystitis meanwhile exhibit the following: Peptic ulcer Colitis Functional bowel syndrome Hiatus hernia
18820	Doctors ask about the patient's medical history and conduct a physical exam. Blood tests are also conducted to evaluate the liver's health and to measure the amount of bile in the blood. The patient may also undergo an ultrasound exam to evaluate the liver.
18824	Chondrocalinisis is diagnosed radiography, MRIs and CT scans.
18825	Through just basing on the tender lump on the ear where a small painful nodule on the rim of the ear due to CNH, can easily be diagnosed by the doctor.
18826	Chondrodystrophy can be determined through x-rays and parent testing, but it is not until the baby is born that a diagnosis can be proven. Once the baby is indeed diagnosed with the disorder, the parents should check on him all the time because as he grows older, his senses may as well have some defects. The child may also experience breathing difficulties, scoliosis, and arthritis.
18830	The patient may be asked to move the knee such as by walking or jumping to gauge the knee's strength and alignment. Tenderness may be detected or a grinding sensation may be felt below the kneecap when extending the knee. X-rays or other imaging tests are recommended to determine the cause of knee pain. Severe symptoms may lead to arthroscopy, a minor surgical procedure, to confirm the diagnosis and help treat the condition.
18831	Chondrosarcoma can be detected by endoscopic tests and X-rays, as well as magnetic resonance imaging. Doctors also perform curettage and fluid aspiration to take out tissue samples for biopsy in order to determine the stage of the cancer.
18836	The disease is diagnosed when yellowish-white patches or streaks are found in the retina while the patient is observed under an ophthalmoscope. These patches are already lesions caused by the infection.
18839	Chromoblastomycosis is diagnosed by scraping the lesion and adding potassium hydroxide on it, then observing it under a microscope. What the doctor looks for are the Medlar bodies or sclerotic cells which are active in the lesion. The fungal scrapings are also cultured to determine which organism is involved in the infection.
18840	DNA and chromosomal tests are conducted to determine the onset of translocations among chromosomes. Family history is also studied.
18844	Doctors take note of the patient's medical history as well as the signs and symptoms. If they suspect chronic adrenal insufficiency, the patient undergoes tests such as blood test, ACTH stimulation test, and imaging tests.
18845	Patients suffering from the above mentioned symptoms are suspected to have chronic berylliosis if they are found to have a history of exposure to beryllium. Chest X-rays show changes in lung appearance and activity. The patient also undergoes a kind of blood test called beryllium lymphocyte proliferation test which detects beryllium sensitivity. When test results show a high level of beryllium sensitivity, BeLPT is then done on the cells washed out from the lungs.
18846	A patient undergoes a thorough medical history and physical exam to determine the cause of the condition. Doctors may prescribe an antihistamine-decongestant medication. If it fails, the patient may undergo tests such as allergy and sinus tests, chest X-ray, lung function tests, endoscopy, bronchoscopy, and pH probe.
18847	Doctors ask about the headaches, such questions include the start of the headache and how it felt like. Patients may also be asked the medications they are taking. Doctors may also conduct physical examination for signs of illness, infection, or neurological problems. Blood or urine tests may also be performed if the cause is uncertain. These tests identify possible underlying medical conditions. Sometimes doctors may also recommend imaging studies such as an X-ray, CT, or MRI scans.
18848	The doctor discusses a patient's present and past medical problems as well as the symptoms and their occurrences, and examines the affected areas. If the patient has chronic exertional compartment syndrome, the doctor notices a muscle bulge or herniation and sometimes swelling or tightness certain muscle areas. The patient also undergoes imaging tests to detect bone, muscle, or blood vessel abnormalities such X-rays, computed tomography, ultrasound and Doppler ultrasound, and specialized magnetic resonance imaging. A compartment pressure measurement test may also be recommended to measure the pressure within the patient's muscle compartments. Abnormally high measurements lead to a diagnosis of the condition.
18852	Patients diagnosed with chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyneropathy show loss of tendon reflexes, shrinkage of muscles, fasciculations and loss of sensation. They may also have Multi-Focal Motor neuropathy and present a peripheral nerve or cranial nerve dysfunction. Chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyneuropathy is diagnosed by electromyography (EMG) and nerve conduction study (NCS). NCS show demyelination in a person with CIDP, and the findings include presence of abnormal temporal dispersion in one or more motor nerves, reduced nerve conduction speed, absence o F waves in two or more motor nerves.
18853	The patient is suspected of having chronic kidney failure, the doctor recommends urine and blood tests to check for increased levels of waste products, such as urea and creatinine. Chest X-ray is also use to see retained fluid in the lungs. Other tests may also be done to rule out other possible causes for the signs and symptoms. Ultrasound imaging, magnetic resonance imaging, and kidney biopsy also help confirm the diagnosis. End-stage kidney disease is confirmed when there are consistent high levels of urea and creatinine showing in blood tests.
18854	CLL is suspected when a person suffers from lymphocytosis, and this is followed by an abnormal population of B cells in the bone marrow and blood. Also, the CLL cells in one individual are clonal, or genetically identical. Some hematologic problems however, show similarities in clinical presentation to that of CLL. A few of these diseases include marginal zone lymphoma, mantle cell lymphoma, B cell prolymphocytic leukemia, and lymphoplasmatic lymphoma.
18855	Doctors diagnose the condition based on the signs and symptoms experienced by the patient as well as the results of blood tests, which measure levels of thyroid hormone and thyroid-stimulating hormone.
18857	Diagnosis of the condition can be done through certain procedures and tests. The most usual diagnostic procedures include physical exam, bone marrow exam, complete blood count, imaging tests, FISH analysis, and polymerase chain reaction.
18858	Diagnosis is based on results of blood test. The test can show abnormal count of white blood cell. Tests that examine chromosomes are required to confirm diagnosis.
18859	A physician will do a physical examination. Neurological exam can show indications of the nerve damage. Tests that can be done include biopsy, sedimentation rate, chest X-ray, urinalysis, antibodies blood test against neutrophils, and hepatitis blood test.
18860	Doctors diagnose the disorder through comprehensive blood cell count when the patient often has unusual infections. A bone marrow sample is typically taken by means of a needle.
18861	The disease is diagnosed through history of long-term productive cough. A physical examination and tests, as well as chest X-ray also help diagnose the illness.
18862	The doctor asks the patient to describe the pain as well as when it occurs and how long it lasts. He or she also discusses the patient's personal health history and family history. Tests or exams such as pelvic examination, cultures, laparoscopy, and pain mapping may also be recommended.
18864	A series of scans and tests may need to be conducted to confirm diagnosis. An effective method for diagnosis is bone biopsy.
18865	The disease can be diagnosed through neuroligic examination, urine and blood tests, ultrasonography, and kidney biopsy.
18866	The symptoms of chronic sinusitis may be mistaken for those of colds or allergies making the condition difficult to diagnose. The doctor uses several methods to screen for chronic sinusitis such as nasal endoscopy, imaging studies, nasal and sinus cultures, and an allergy test.
18867	The disorder has no simple test. Its diagnosis is founded on the occurrence of usual symptoms and signs, as well as the nonexistence of other conditions producing similar problems.
18868	Gynecologists evaluate the symptoms in order to rule out treatable causes of pain, such as yeast or bacterial infections, skin conditions, and medicals problems, and recommend treatments or ways to manage the pain.
18869	Churg-Strauss syndrome is diagnosed through symptoms occurring in patients that have asthma history. Other ways used for diagnosis include physical examination, blood examination, chest X-ray, and biopsy of tissue involved.
18870	Ultrasonogrphy can help verify the existence of ascites, as well as differentiate it from similar conditions. Diagnostic tests such as lymph node biopsy, CT scan, laparotomy, lymphamgiography, and bone marrow examination can also be done. Physical examination includes obtaining vital signs, examining for liver disease, hepatomegaly, and skin examination.
18871	Doctors typically identify cicatricial pemphigoid through its characteristic blisters, but it is analyzed with certainty by skin sample examination. At times, doctors make use of "special chemical stains" that permit the visibility of antibody deposits under a microscope.
18872	Since there's no irrefutable blood test for detecting ciguatoxin presence, diagnosis generally depends on clinical features and history.
18873	The disorder is diagnosed through blood test for blood sugar, blood count, renal function tests, urinalysis, prothrombin time, and electrolytes. Periodic examinations of the eyes must have visual acuity test. Other methods for diagnosis include electrooculogram, color testing, and dark adaptations.
18874	Cirrhosis is diagnosed by liver biopsy and endoscopy. Blood fluids are also taken under laboratory testing.
18875	The disorder is diagnosed through biochemical and clinical results and may be confirmed through molecular genetic testing.
18876	Gonorrhea can be diagnosed based on the symptoms presented by the patient.
18878	The doctor diagnoses the condition based on the patient's symptoms, medical history, physical exam, and results of appropriate tests. Tests commonly performed by doctors include checking the pulses on the feet, ankle-brachial index, doppler ultrasound, and magnetic resonance imaging or angiography.
18879	Cleft lip diagnosis is based upon physical examination of an infant's mouth. Cleft lip is generally apparent at birth due to distinguishing facial trait. Infants are also examined for presence of some other defects, like cleft palate.
18881	The disorder is diagnosed based on radiographic and clinical findings, which includes imaging of thorax, cranium, hands, and pelvis.
18882	The doctor uses a stethoscope to listen to a patient's heart. He or she diagnose click-murmur syndrome when a clicking sound is heard as the valve leaflets billow out, followed by a murmur that results from blood flowing back into the atrium. The doctor conducts an echocardiogram to confirm the diagnosis.
18883	Specialists interview the patient about mood and thoughts, or ask the patient fill out a questionnaire to screen or check for depression symptoms. A patient suspected as being depressed undergoes a battery of medical and psychological tests and exams. These procedure help rule out other problems that could be causing the symptoms, pinpoint a diagnosis as well as for any related complications. These exams and tests may include physical exam, laboratory tests, and psychological evaluation.
18884	Diagnosis of cloacal exstrophy can be done even prior to birth. Fetal ultrasound of the baby can determine the condition, but other procedures will be done when the infant is born. These other procedures include a computerized tomography scan, also known as a CT scan; magnetic resonance imaging or MRI, an abdominal ultrasound, and an endoscopy.
18885	The disease can be diagnosed by blood serum tests to find the presence of the bacteria.
18886	When the mother is about 16 weeks pregnant, a prenatal diagnosis can be made to see if her infant has clubfoot. But this is more easily confirmed during the initial physical checkup after she gives birth. Clubfoot is a progressive disease, and should be diagnosed right away to adjust to the bone changes that will occur over the years. All treatment given to a patient has the goal of eliminating clubfoot and helping the patient have a normal foot as much as possible.
18887	Diagnosis depends on symptoms, and doctors may use several approach for diagnosis, including neurological examination, imaging test, and headache tracking.
18888	Diagnosis is founded on detection of the virus in one's amniotic fluid through cell culture and/or molecular biology.
18889	Doctors diagnose coal workers' pneumoconiosis after noting distinguishable spots on chest X-ray of an individual exposed to the dust for long periods.
18890	The basis for diagnosis of the disease is its symptoms, particularly appearance of the retinal. Thorough eye check-up confirms diagnosis.
18892	Doctors might suspect the presence of the disease if an individual develops the symptoms after recent traveling or living in a place where the illness is common. X-rays of the chest typically reveal abnormalities, however, further tests might be needed in confirming diagnosis.
18893	Diagnosis is based on indicative symptoms, but thorough examination and diagnostic tests will confirm the analysis. Some tests include urinalysis, CBC, X-rays, etc.
18894	The disease is diagnosed by blood tests in search of antibodies that trigger the condition, HLA genetic typing, and endoscopy.
18895	Diagnosing may include routine lab tests that incorporate CBC, chemistry panel, sedimentation rate, thyroid profile, etc. Chromosomal analysis aids in detecting other underlying disorders. If there is a presence of skull deformity, skull x-ray is performed.
18896	Presently, diagnosing the syndrome is established on clinical findings. Laboratory tests that confirm the syndrome are not available. For renal, cardiac, and other deformities, neonatal ultrasounds are performed.
18897	Cogan syndrome is diagnosed after a doctor finds the common problem combinations linked to the disease in the inner ear and eye. Doctors will rule out infection as cause of symptom, and evaluate the nervous system.
18898	Diagnosis of the syndrome can be done through clinical examination, but frequently challenging due to its variation in expression.
18899	The diagnosis is made through complete blood count, Direct Coombs test, and bedside cold agglutinin test.
18900	Generally an allergist obtains the diagnosis of cold contact urticaria through performing cold test.
18901	The disease can be diagnosed based on the symptoms shown by the patient.
18903	Physical exam will be carried out by the doctor to rule out possible causes, if there is no possible underlying medical condition, the baby will be diagnosed with colic.
18904	A thorough examination of the rectum is given to test and monitor blood from stool and other anal changes. Laboratory test like stool samples, blood test, full blood count and x-rays are conducted. Procedures like Colonoscopy and Sigmoidoscopy are performed to evaluate the condition.
18905	Doctors may start diagnoses with culturing the stool to eliminate infectious disease. They may also refer patients to specialist for flexible sigmoidoscopy and colonoscopy. These tests can be as significant in ruling out any other condition to make a definite diagnosis. Another effective diagnostic approach is biopsy.
18906	Oftentimes, doctors diagnose the condition through chest X-ray as well as other tests such as computerized tomography scan and blood tests.
18907	If ocular coloboma is suspected, possibly noticed through the keyhole-like shape of the pupil, then opthalmologist do a complete eye examination.
18908	Fecal occult blood test checks the presence of blood in the stool by submitting a stool sample. Stool DNA test is accurate for detecting colon cancer by means of DNA markers analysis. Barium Enema helps to evaluate the condition of the entire large intestine through X-ray.
18909	Digital rectal exam Fecal occult blood test - to check sample of blood in the stool Flexible sigmoidoscopy - to examine rectum and sigmoid Barium enema - to evaluate the whole large intestine with the use of X-ray barium Colonoscopy - most responsive test for colorectal cancer and colorectal polyps Genetic testing Pill camera New technologies like CT colonography
18910	Doctors conduct screening methods such as digital rectal exam, fecal occult blood test, flexible sigmoidoscopy, barium enema, colonoscopy, genetic testing, pill camera, and new technologies such as virtual colonoscopy. Theses tests have a key role in detecting polyps before they become cancerous. Note however, that each test has its own benefits and risks.
18911	The doctor takes the patient's medical history and conducts a physical examination, during which the abdomen is checked for areas of tenderness. The patient may also undergo diagnostic procedures such as colonoscopy, biopsy, X-rays of the abdomen and pelvis, abdominal arteriogram, abdominal magnetic resonance imaging, abdominal computerized tomography scans, blood tests, and stool sample.
18912	The Ishihara color test is the medical tool to determine color blindness. This consists of several pictures that depict colored spots that make up a picture.
18913	A diagnosis of CTF is typically based on a certain combination of clinical symptoms reported by the patient. Doctors can also perform some specialized confirmatory laboratory exams, that would include cell culture and antibody assays
18914	Patients undergo screening and diagnostic tests to detect polyps and early stage of cancer. Such tests include stool blood test, stool DNA test, barium enema, colonoscopy, and virtual colonoscopy.
18915	Doctors perform a physical examination on the patient by checking reflexes and response to painful stimuli as well as the pupil size. Blood samples are also taken to check complete blood count, electrolytes, glucose, and liver function, carbon monoxide poisoning, or drug overdose. The doctor may also perform a spinal tap or brain scans.
18916	Blood tests are performed check cholesterol and triglycerides levels. This specific test include: Serum LDL, Triglycerides, Apolipoprotein B100 test, and Serum HDL cholesterol.
18917	Clinical evaluation usually includes CBC as well as other differential count, chemistry panel and sedimentation rate. Routine culture and smear of the sputum can also be performed.
18918	This medical condition is largely suspected among children and adults who have history of recurring infections that involves the bronchi, lungs, sinuses and ears.
18919	The disease can be diagnosed during a breakout, or when the patient is already being treated in the hospital. X-rays can also detect presence of excess fluids in the alveoli.
18920	CCS can be best tested for by estimating the pressure within compartments of the muscle. If the pressure is adequately high, a surgical procedure called fasciotomy may be required.
18921	Diagnosis includes full review of patient's medical history, bone scan, physical examination, x-ray and full physical examination.
18922	Complicated grief is not yet an officially recognized mental disorder but an individual may still be diagnosed with it. Persons suffering from the condition undergo a psychological evaluation through questionnaires about the loss of a loved one, mood, behavior and thoughts, sleeping & eating patterns as well as lifestyle and social situation. The symptoms should manifest at least six months and impair or disrupt a person's daily life such as work and social functions. A physical examination may also be conducted to rule out other health problems that may have caused the symptoms.
18923	A specialist in mental health can diagnose compulsive gambling through evaluation of mood and behavior patterns. The diagnosis is based on the criteria in the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, which is published by the American Psychiatric Association.
18924	Mental health specialists diagnose patients through a psychological evaluation in which an individual is asked about obsessions, compulsions, and emotional well-being. The patient may also fill out questionnaires. If the disorder is suspected, the individual is further asked questions especially on collecting habits. The specialist also checks for three hoarding characteristics such as acquisition of a large number of things that may or may not have value and inability to discard these things, a cluttered home with spaces that cannot be used as intended, and distress over hoarding and impaired daily activities.
18925	Most people with compulsive eating are overweight. The doctor performs tests and exams on the patient to help diagnose and assess any related complications. An individual suspected with the behavior undergoes a physical examination, laboratory tests, and psychological evaluation. He or she is diagnosed with the disorder based on the criteria set in the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, which is published by the American Psychiatric Association.
18926	Determining whether an individual has compulsive sexual behavior is difficult. Thus, specialists conduct a thorough psychological evaluation to determine whether the behavior has negatively affected an individual's life. The specialist may ask about his or her emotional health including sexual thoughts, and behaviors and compulsions. Family and friends may also be asked for their observations. The individual may also undergo a thorough physical examination to determine whether a physical condition is causing the sexual addiction.
18927	Differential diagnosis is used by a clinician to differentiate the disorder with other disorders having the similar symptoms.
18928	The individual undergoes a physical and psychological evaluation from a specialist. It is diagnosed based on the individual's signs and symptoms. The physical examination only determines whether any physical causes are triggering the symptoms. The individual is be diagnosed with the condition based on the criteria set in the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders published by the American Psychiatric Association.
18929	A person has concussion if he or she becomes dazed or has been knocked out due to a blow to the head. The doctor evaluates the accident and performs a neurological exam to check your memory and concentration, vision, hearing, balance, coordination and reflexes. Post-concussion damage is assessed through a computerized tomography scan.
18930	Observation of the child, discussion with the child and family, use of structured diagnostic interviews, and history can help in diagnosing conduct disorder.
18931	Diagnostic tests involve testing the degree of hearing loss type of hearing loss. The through evaluation will be done my medical professionals.
18932	The presence of the cauliflower-like lesions in the genitalia is the initial clinical diagnosis for this disease. A coloscope can also be used to check growths or outbreaks in the cervix. When acetic vinegars is swabbed in the area, the lesions will also appear whitish.
18933	Diagnosis is largely based on the appearance of warts on the genital area, along with vulvar biopsy, when necessary.
18934	The symptoms of this condition are the primary basis for doctor's diagnosis. The Eye examination results and medical history of the patient will also be used as primary references in coming up with a definitive diagnosis.
18935	Physical examination and careful evaluation of the symptoms are the primary basis of the diagnosis. This can be further confirmed though urine and blood tests to efficiently measure the exact level of hormones that are produced by the adrenal glands.
18936	If the medical provider suspects some type of bleeding disorder, several laboratory tests can significantly help in determine the extent and type of disease. Tests that could help in the assessment include PTT, fibrinogen levels, reptilase time, bleeding time, thrombin time and clotting time.
18937	Diagnostic tests like optical coherence topography and other eye examinations are conducted to determine the presence inflamed nerves in the anterior area.
18938	In majority of the cases of congenital amputation, the defect is not diagnosed up until the baby is born. However, ultrasound examinations can help reveal early abnormalities as well as absence of limbs.
18939	Protein C tests, ATIII measurements, as well as protein S deficiencies are among the primary medical tests conducted for infants with congenital antithrombin III deficiency.
18941	CAM may be initially diagnosed by ultrasonography during prenatal. After birth, the chest radiography is usually performed first and CT scanning will also be necessary to assess the extent and type of the lesions.
18942	Several hearing tests and ear inspections can be conducted to determine the extent of the hearing damage as well as present possible cure.
18943	Clinical tests include ABG measurements, chromosome studies through skin biopsy, chest radiography, cardiac ultrasonography, and renal and cranial ultrasonography.
18944	Among the most universal tests that are conducted to diagnose congenital erythropoietic porphyria include measuring the substances that are accumulated in the patient's body such as porphyrins and , porphyrin precursors. These are measured through blood plasma, feces and urine samplings.
18945	Congenital facial diplegia can be diagnosed mainly on the basis of the patient's history along with some neurophysiologic and radiologic tests and physical examinations. A closer observation of the patient's face can also be done to further assess the extent of the damage.
18946	Diagnosis is usually performed through echocardiography, heart catheterization, medical genetics, molecular cardiology and magnetic resonance imaging. History of the patient and physical exam will also be conducted along with chest x-rays
18947	Diagnosis is typically made when doctors hear a possible heart murmur though the stethoscope. Chest x-rays may be done to check any heart enlargement, as well as electrocardiogram to check any congestion of the lungs and heart of the patient.
18948	Laboratory tests include examinations of the liver and the renal function. Ultrasonography, ultrasound examinations, CT scans, intravenous pyelography and splenoportography are among the possible imaging tools used to determine the extent of the disease. Liver biopsy and angiography may also be performed to derive a definitive diagnosis.
18949	To be able to get a more definitive diagnosis of herpes simplex virus it is best confirmed through the isolation of the virus in tissue cultures. Skin scraping can also be conducted on the lesions in order to effectively reveal some histologic appearances of the infections.
18950	Thorough physical examination is vital for the accurate diagnosis of congenital hip dysplasia with the use of a specific method called the Ortolani test or Barlow method. X-ray and ultrasound can be helpful in detecting any abnormality in the hip joint and considered as an effective tool for the diagnosis of congenital hip dysplasia.
18951	The diagnosis of congenital hypothyroidism is usually confirmed through the demonstration of the infant's elevated levels of TSH and the reduced levels of serum thyroid hormone. Some routinary laboratory testing can also be performed from time to time.
18952	Prenatal diagnosis through ultrasonography is used to check the condition of the fetus. Carrier testing is also done on relatives for possible proband mutation. Chest radiography may also be conducted.
18953	Diagnosis would largely be dependent on the symptoms and reported lack of sensation by the patients. Since there are no physical manifestation of this condition, diagnosis will mostly be based on medical history of the patient. Supporting laboratory test may follow.
18954	Congenital megacolon can be diagnosed through barium enema x-ray, biopsy and manometry. Early detection can significantly help in corrective surgeries conducted on the patient.
18955	Since tumor is believed to be congenital, it is usually detected prior to birth through the use of an ultrasound. However, in most cases, it is discovered during the first few months of life through the abnormal mass presented. Postnatal surgery may be conducted to avoid other medical complications of the infant.
18956	To enable accurate and rapid assessment of the disease, the stool electrolytes along with osmolality are typically measured..
18957	Diagnosis would usually depend on the symptoms that are associated with the disease along with physical examination.
18958	Diagnosis for the congenital nephrotic syndrome is mainly based on clinical findings, which usually results from investigations aid in distinguishing the etiology as well as monitoring and planning of treatment. Urinalysis and blood tests are usually conducted to determine and monitor the protein levels.
18959	A serum rubella titer is usually used to measure and detect signs of rubella infection. The increase level of antibodies, the rubella-specific IgG can be a clear indicator of rubella virus. Fetal blood tests and chorionic villus biopsy of the specimen can help provide a definitive diagnosis.
18960	If the disease is suspected at birth, placenta is examined for syphilis signs. The infant undergoes physical examination that can show indications of spleen and liver swelling, as well as bone inflammation.
18961	Congenital toxoplasmosis can be diagnosed through physical examination, as well as prenatal tests and postnatal tests. Prenatal exams include fetal blood testing, amniotic fluid testing, abdomen ultrasound, and antibody titer. Postnatal exams include brain CT scan, brain MRI scan, torch screen, neurological exam, and standard eye examination.
18962	Diagnosis may include careful analysis of medical history, physical examination, blood tests, ECG, chest X-ray, ejection fraction, and echocardiogram.
18963	An ultrasound reveals a single placenta and umbilical cord showing the signs of conjoined twins. It may also reveal a placenta without separating membranes.
18964	Conjunctivitis can be diagnosed through eye examination, as well as taking a swab of conjunctiva for tests.
18965	A doctor diagnoses Conn's syndrome by history, medical examination, and performing blood tests. Analyzing history includes illnesses, symptoms, surgeries, medications, habits, allergies, and family. Blood tests may show high levels of aldosterone, low blood acidity, and hypokalemia. The most thorough approach of diagnosis is measuring blood levels of renin and aldosterone.
18966	Stool analysis for any blood present in the stool. Anorectal manometry is used to measure the muscle coordination used in bowel movement. Medical history, physical examination, and checking the present medication can help in the diagnosis of constipation.
18967	The condition can be diagnosed by stool examination as well as the symptoms present.
18968	A doctor can diagnose Constitutional Growth Delay through physical examination and tests. Although consulting an endocrinologist can sometimes be sought to confirm diagnosis.
18969	The doctor asks about the symptoms and examines the skin. If the cause is not clear, the doctor recommends a patch test during which small quantities of potential stimuli are placed on the skin to see a reaction. The doctor confirms his diagnosis after the tested skin develops a raised bump.
18970	The basis of the diagnosis for contact lens solution toxicity would be mainly be based on the symptoms and signs the patient suffers.
18972	Diagnosis may be challenging, as doctors need to rule out health conditions that resembles the symptoms of Conversion Disorder. Diagnostic approaches may include laboratory tests and physical exam. Neuromascular testing and X-rays can help doctors confirm that muscle and bone capacity is intact in patients who claim mobility loss.
18973	Some of the methods used for diagnosis of Cooley's anemia include blood tests, assisted reproductive technology, and prenatal testing. Prenatal tests can be performed prior to the baby's birth to diagnose if they have the disease; chronic villi sampling and amniocentesis are some tests used.
18974	The disease can be diagnosed through several approaches including laboratory tests, imaging tests, history, and others tests like EEG, lymphoblasts, and cultured fibroblasts.
18975	If the doctor suspects Coproporhyria, she or he may recommend tests, including blood test, urine test, and stool sample test.
18976	Cor pulmonale is diagnosed through history, physical examination, and tests. Some tests include chest X-ray, chest CAT scan, echocardiogram, pulmonary function tests, V/Q scan, brain natriuretic peptide blood test, measurement of blood oxygen, and lung biopsy.
18977	An eye examination is the most common way to diagnose corneal abrasions and to rule out other possible eye problems such as glaucoma.
18978	A doctor may diagnose corneal dystrophy through examinations and additional tests. Some tests include visual acuity test, pachymetry, specular microscope tests, and slit-lamp examination.
18979	The erosion of the cornea can be detected through a magnification using the ophtalmoscope. In most cases, a fluorescein is first applied to the blue-light to be used.
18980	Eye examination is the primary basis for corneal foreign body.
18981	The condition is diagnosed based on symptoms and signs observed by a doctor. Diagnosis includes medical history, laboratory tests, and physical examination.
18982	A physical examination, particularly the feet of the patient is the best form of diagnosis, especially to rule out other skin problems such as cysts and warts. If corns is a recurrent condition, an x-ray may be conducted to check if there are any physical abnormality that causes the growth of warts.
18983	The doctor reviews the patient's medical history and conducts a physical examination. The patient may also undergo routine blood tests as well as a diagnostic test such as electrocardiogram, echocardiogram, stress test, angiogram, electron beam computerized tomography, or magnetic resonance angiography.
18984	Diagnosis is based on medical history, physical examination, blood tests, and diagnostic tests.
18985	An effective method for diagnosing Corpus callosum agenesis is through brain scan. Other methods include CT scan, MRI, prenatal MRI, and prenatal ultrasound.
18986	To find out if a patient has this disease, digital imaging needs to be performed.
18987	An autopsy will conclusively determine the occurence of CBD. It will indicate that the brain tissue of the CBD patients is characterized by nerve cell loss, gliosis and atrophy (shrinkage) of the posterior frontal and/or parietal lobes and substantia nigra. Swollen nerve cells that contain neurofilament, and inclusions similar to those seen in Pick's disease, may be observed, as well.
18988	Doctors base their diagnosis on the telltale symptoms of Costello syndrome - the child's physical appearance, feeding difficulties, weight and height.
18989	Doctors recognize the disease by conducting a physical exam and by examining your history and experiences. Chest X-Rays and other imaging scans are employed not to diagnose the condition, but to help rule out other diseases.
18990	The doctor conducts a physical examination by feeling the breastbone for areas of tenderness or swelling. The patient is also asked to describe the pain and its influence. Sometimes chest X-rays or other imaging tests may be recommended to rule out other conditions.
18991	The doctor conducts a physical examination by feeling the breastbone for areas of tenderness or swelling. The patient is also asked to describe the pain and its influence. Sometimes chest X-rays or other imaging tests may be recommended to rule out other conditions.
18992	There is still no diagnostic test which could be done on SIDS victims.
18993	Muscle biopsies, blood tests and general clinical findings provide evidence for the existence of the disease.
18994	Couvade syndrome is a little-understood syndrome and because the symptoms are only mild, expectant fathers do not necessarily go to consult a doctor.
18995	This disease is hard to diagnose; it occurs in 1 in 200,000 people.
18998	The doctor asks for the patient's symptoms and medical history and performs a physical exam particularly on the temporal arteries, which are usually tender, with a reduced pulse and a hard, cord-like feel and appearance. Blood tests or a biopsy is also done to confirm the diagnosis.
18999	CDD is more manageable if detected earlier, as therapy targeting a specific bony defect is more effective if started during infancy. It is important to closely observe the condition of the patient and to routinely conduct magnetic resonance imaging to monitor the patient's condition. A combination of surgery, brain compression, control of rapid abnormal bone formation, and calcitriol/calcitonin therapy are crucial to ease the symptoms patients go through. Surgeries should be done with care because patients with CDD present problems to the anesthesiologist, especially difficulties with airway management and tracheal intubation.
19000	Diagnosis of Craniofacial dysostosis can be done during birth through the assessment of the symtpoms exihibited by the infant-patient. Further analysis includes MRI scans, radiographs, X-rays, CT scans, and genetic testing.
19002	Positional placiocephaly,which is characterized by a misshaped head, may be thought of to be a symptom of Craniostenosis. However, positional placiocephaly is only brought about by one's sleeping position and does not need surgery for treatment, unlike Craniostenosis.
19003	This condition is recognized by conducting physical examinations, radiographic studies, including plain radiography and computed tomography (CT). Clinical history of the mother is likewise important in diagnosing the disorder.
19004	Doctors will need the patient's medical history, as well as skin biopsy and laboratory tests to conclude if one has CREST syndrome.
19005	To diagnose the condition, newborn screening should be performed on the infant.
19006	Individuals exhibiting symptoms of CJD need to undergo electoencephalography, celebrospinal fluid for 14-3-3 protein, and MRI of the brain for conclusive diagnosis.
19007	To confirm the existence of the disease, the infant needs to undergo genetic testing. Fluorescent in situ hybridization (FISH) can diagnose patients with very small deletions in their chromosome 5.
19009	Babies suspected with CNS should be tested with bile analysis or genetic testing.
19010	Diagnosis of CCHF is performed in highly-equipped, high biosafety level laboratories. IgG and IgM antibodies are checked in serum by enzyme-linked immumoassay from about the sixth day of the disease. Virus detection in the blood or tissue samples is performed and a method called polymerase chain reaction (PCR) is also done a method which was recently developed.
19011	Colonoscopy is best used to diagnose the condition because it provides visualization of the colon and identifies the pattern of the disease. Biopsy and radiologic tests may also be conducted.
19012	These tests are needed to rule out other diseases as the causes of the symptoms - baseline blood test and erythrocyte sedimentation rate. Patients with Cronkhite-Canada have to continuously undergo laboratory examinations to monitor the progress of the disease.
19013	Doctors identify the disorder by looking at the telltale signs of Croup. For severe cases of blockage, an X-Ray will help eliminate other possible causes of the symptoms.
19014	To diagnose the disease, doctors need radiographs, genetic testing and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI).
19015	Doctors can easily detect Crouzondermoskeletal syndrome just by looking at the skin. In some cases, skin biopsy is required, while blood tests, endoscopy and x-rays are needed to eliminate other causes.
19016	A battery of tests are performed in the diagnosis of Crow-Fukase syndrome including bone marrow biopsy, lymph node biopsy, electromyography and nerve biopsies.
19017	Extensive laboratory exams will determine the existence of the disease, such as complete blood count, complement assay, liver function test, rheumatoid factor, cryoglobulin test, urinalysis, angiogram, hepatitis-C exam, chest X-ray, protein electrophoresis-serum and ESR.
19018	Infections are detected in blood cultures, sputum and urine sample. In cases of crytococcal meningitis, the levels of CSF protein are elevated while mononuclear cell pleocytosis is observed, predominated by neutrophilia. The glucose levels are low, while latex test for cryptococcal capsular antigen will reveal positive results in CSF.
19019	The condition is usually diagnosed in the examination of a newborn during which the doctor examines the baby's groin area. If the testicle is not in its normal location in the scrotum, the doctor diagnoses the condition. Imaging tests such as ultrasound and x-rays are used to locate the testes and confirm the diagnosis.
19020	Acid staining test on a stool sample which can identify cryptosporidium under a microscope is the easiest method in diagnosing cryptosporidiosis.
19021	The disease is diagnosed through an acid-staining test that identifies cryptosporidium under a microscope. The analyzed cells are obtained from the patient's stool sample or tissue sample from the colon in severe cases. A standard stool culture be used to rule out other bacterial pathogens.
19023	Currarino's triad is usually diagnosed with the manifestation of three main abnormalities: an anterior sacral defect, an anorectal malformation, and a presacral mass. Plain radiography can also help detect some incidental findings of possible sacral anomaly.
19024	Upon suspicion of Cushing's, a dexamethasone suppression or a 24-hour urinary measurement for cortisol level is conducted since both offer equal detection rates. Scintigraphy. CT scan and MRI are also done.
19025	The diagnosis would usually be based on the symptoms as well ass blood tests and skin biopsy of the infected area.
19026	The physical appearance of the lesion is the primary form of diagnosis during physical checkup. A histopathologic examination is also performed to determine the nature and causative factor of the lesion.
19027	Diagnosis of Cutaneous larva migrans or CLM usually depends on how the skin eruptions appear. Upon CBC count, Some patients were found to exhibit peripheral eosinophilia, while heightened lgE levels were seen on those who undergo immunoglobulin determinations.
19028	The diagnosis for Cutaneous lupus erythematosus would largely be based on the type of symptoms that would develop. Skin biopsy and other laboratory tests are also conducted to diagnose possible systemic complications.
19029	The diagnosis for Cutaneous T-cell lymphoma is typically made through the removal or getting a skin sample or what is more commonly known as biopsy of the affected area in order to examine the skin cells under the microscope. This operation is usually done with patient's administered with local anaesthetic to better manage the pain.
19030	There are actually no definite laboratory findings for cutis laxa. Chest radiography may be also be done to check for possible pulmonary involvement.
19031	Physical examinatiosn are conducted to diagnose this medical condition. Imaging studies may also be performed to check and expertly evaluate other congenital anomalies. A neurosurgeon and orthopedist are usually the preofessional practitioner who handle this type of medical case.
19033	MRI and CT scans are used to check possible association to possible mental retardation as well as any other ophthalmologic and neurologic abnormalities.
19034	Diagnosis includes conducting a full blood count to detect the neutrophil count, which can be result on an abnormally low level. Other supplemental diagnosis include bone marrow biopsy for sever cases.
19035	Cyclic vomiting syndrome is a daignosis by exclusion. There is no specific test that confirms the presence of the syndrome. The most common tests for the severe vomiting done by doctors are for brain tumors, metabolic disorders, and inner ear problems.
19036	Cyclospora infection is diagnosed a specialized test called an acid-fast staining test that identifies the parasite in the stool sample under a microscope. The test is done to rule out other possible causes of diarrhea and other gastrointestinal symptoms.
19037	Diagnosis of this medical condition involves physical examination, laboratory tests and psychological evaluation.
19038	Physical exam, laboratory tests, and psychological evaluation are essential in diagnosing cyclothymic disorder.
19039	The disease can be diagnosed by skeletal X-ray findings, amino acid screening of the blood serum, skin biopsy and ophthalmic examinations.
19040	The sweat test is considered the most useful among all other test for diagnosing CF. Other tests are Chest x-ray, Lung Infection Test, and Sinus X-rays and Sputum cultures.
19041	Usually the lump is physically obvious and would not require imaging tests for diagnosis. Nonetheless, to have an approximate evaluation of the abnormality, Magnetic Resonance Imaging is deemed very helpful.
19042	Diagnosis of cystinosis is typically confirmed by cystine level measurement in blood cells. Other blood tests are conducted to check for the imbalances in sodium and potassium, as well as the level of cystine in the urine. Kidney sample and eye examinations are also performed.
19043	Most often, cystinuria is typically diagnosed when the patient is detected to have cystine kidney stone, which often shows in the urinalysis. Abdominal x-rays, intravenous pyelogram and renal ultrasound procedures are also done to confirm diagnosis.
19044	The symptoms are the primary basis for diagnosis along with diagnostic tests such as urinalysis, cytoscopy and imaging tests.
19045	Interstitial cystitis may be difficult to detect for its signs and symptoms resemble those of other disorders. Doctors use series of tests such as through potassium sensitivity tests, cystoscopy and through urine tests.
19046	Doctors will conduct a pelvic exam in order to diagnose cystocele. They may instruct you to contract the muscles or your pelvis, ask you to bear down and push as if you are having a bowel movement, letting them see how far the bladder protrudes into the vagina and they may also look for the telltale bulge in the vaginal wall, making prolapse easy to diagnose.
19047	Diagnosis is based on medical history, physical examination, and diagnostic tests. While virus isolation present in urine can be the most 'sensitive' lab method, other tests are also done to support the diagnosis.
19048	The virus can be cultured through special lab tests, but tests require two to three weeks and are also expensive. There are blood tests that help diagnose the infection or identify if an individual has been exposed to the virus previously.
19051	Dandy fever can be diagnosed via community indexing during an outbreak as well as by physical examination.
19052	Dandy-Walker syndrome is diagnosed through physical examination and tests, as well as analysis of history.
19053	Darier's disease is diagnosed through medical history, physical examination, procedures, and other tests. Gene sequencing is also used, as well as skin biopsy for confirming the diagnosis.
19054	Basing on your experience of both sudden loss of muscle tone and excessive daytime sleepiness, a doctor may make a preliminary diagnosis of Hypersomnia. For further studies and evaluation, the doctor may also refer you to a sleep specialist.
19055	Specialist blood tests and ultrasound procedures are conducted to determine the onset of the disease.
19056	Diagnosis of De Quervain's tenosynovitis is done through conducting a Finkelstein test. This is a simple test of bending the thumb across the palm of the hand and also bending the fingers over the thumb.
19057	De Sanctis-Cacchione syndrome can be diagnosed through analysis of medical history and physical examination.
19059	These ulcers are diagnosed by the presence of the sores at the back of a patient.
19060	The disease can be diagnosed by ultrasound.
19061	Ultrasound is often used to determine the presence and growth of blood clots. CT scan and MRI may show the presence of blood clots by providing visual images of the veins. Venography involves injecting a dye and x-ray procedure to look for clots.
19062	Deerfly fever is diagnosed by blood test and sputum samples that are cultured to efficiently encourage the growth of bacteria.
19064	There are no specific diagnostic tests for ALS. Doctors meanwhile perform nerve response tests to rule out other forms of muscle dystrophy.
19065	Degos disease can be diagnosed through analysis of medical history, physical examinations, laboratory tests, and imaging tests like MRI and EEG test.
19066	MR imaging is believed to be the best technique choice for identifying Dejerine-Sottas disease. Analysis of medical history, physical examination, and lab tests are also done.
19067	Tests that check specifically for signs of the disorder are being done by doctors in order to help diagnose gastroparesis. Gastric emptying studies are considered as the most accurate way in diagnosing gastroparesis.
19069	The illness can be diagnosed by the symptoms shown by the patient.
19070	Diagnosis of the disease can include physical examination and tests. Identifying the presence of Demodex mite involves examination of the skin under very strong 'cross-lighting' together with the help of binocular magnifiers.
19071	Diagnosis of Demyelinating disease will depend on the type of disease. Analysis of medical history, clinical data, physical examination, laboratory tests, MRI, and other tests may be done to confirm diagnosis.
19072	Diagnosing dengue fever can be hard, as its symptoms may easily be mistaken with that of other diseases like typhoid fever and malaria. Diagnosis is based on medical history and blood tests.
19073	Diagnosis for this disease include physical examination that may reveal low blood pressure, red throat, swollen glands, weak pulse, rashes and red eyes.
19074	Often times, because it is rare, Dent Disease is diagnosed as idiopathic hypercalciuria. Previous studies however showed that it can best be diagnosed with an analysis of the DNA sequence of CLCN5 gene on the X-chromosome to confirm abnormal mutation.
19075	Differential diagnosis is often applied to diagnose this disease. Common differential diagnosis includes mild forms of amelogenesis imperfecta, turner's hypoplasia, and other defects in the enamel. Deans Index is also used to obtain the fluorosis score of an individual.
19077	Diagnosis of Dentinogenesis involves careful examination of patients dental history as it can provide clues on how severely fragile the teeth of a person are. Evaluation of the physical appearance of the teeth and laboratory exams are also administered.
19078	Diagnosis is usually based on several interviews of the patient and scales to determine the triggering factors of the condition. This will help doctors gauge the patient's experience to determine if it has something to do with his current mental state.
19079	The disorder can be diagnosed by the symptoms displayed by the patient.
19080	Depression can be diagnosed through counseling as well as by monitoring the behaviors of the patient.
19081	Dercum's disease is being diagnosed through a series clinical tests but there is no definite test that can be administered and accurately determine if one really have the disease. Gathering of information such as the rate of weight increase is essential to make the diagnosis as accurate as possible. Oftentimes, doctors will test you on diseases which have similar symptoms as Dercum's disease.
19082	Dermal herpetiformis can be diagnosed using an immunohistochemical technique using the avidin-biotin-peroxidase complex. It is regarded as equally effective procedure as direct immunofluorescence in detecting IgA. Detection of IgA in the unaffected skin of patients with this disease is the most reliable way to establish the diagnosis, it is also considered one of the easiest test to perform.
19085	Diagnosis is usually based on the appearance and the type of distribution of the lesions on the skin.
19086	Dermatologists usually diagnose the condition by physical examination.
19088	A simple test such as drawing a tongue depressor across the skin of your back or your arm may be done by your doctor to diagnose this disorder. You may have dermatographia if a welt (wheal) or a red, swollen line appears within a few minutes after the test.
19090	The best diagnostic test to run for a patient is a muscle biopsy which is done by removing a muscle tissue and evaluating it. It involves close examination of the muscle fibers appearance. Other methods include clinical signs and testings wherein blood tests are run to measure the level of creatine kinase, an enzyme that is produced when muscles are destroyed. Clinical signs also includes frequent tipping or falling due to weakening of the muscle tissues.
19091	For this disease, findings of a cutaneous biopsy may be helpful in the diagnosis as well as the punch biopsy of the pigmentation in the reticular area.
19092	Physicians can easily diagnose lesions onsight by examining the parts of the body that may have manifested ringworm patches. They may also take skin samples from the affected area and examine the samples through a microscope or agar plate and allowed to grow to easily identify the ringword organism.
19093	A differential diagnosis must be enough to rule out other possible disorders that may inhibit the same symptoms such as eczema, contact dermatitis and psoriasis. Clinical tests are also done on scrapings of the affected skin which is usually done through examination under the microscope. The skin sample will also be used to grow more fungal samples and can be used to test effectivity of treatments used.
19093	The signs and symptoms shall be determined by the doctor first if they are caused by another skin disorder such as dermatitis. He may take fluid samples and scrapings from your foot to be viewed under a microscope to be able to identify a fungus.
19094	DES syndrome can be diagnosed under a pelvic exam, PAP smears and colposcopy. Physical examination can be done to males affected by the disorder.
19095	Differential diagnosis of desmoid tumors with the use of immunostaining using vimentin, muscle actin, desmin, and alpha smooth muscle actin to distinguish the tumors is used. A CT scan and MRI is also used to diagnose and also follow-up the tumors. These methods allow the examining physician to know the extent of the tumor and how it is related to nearby structures. MRI defines the pattern and also to examine if there is a recurrence of the tumor.
19096	Diagnosis of this disease is quite tricky. Through the use of CT scan and MRI, one can determine the extent of the tumor through its size of spread and its relationship to the body structures like bones and nodes that surrounds it. Some also detects the EWS/WTI gene fusion transcript as diagnosis.
19097	The disease can be diagnosed by physical examination and strict monitoring of the symptoms.
19098	Certain criteria for diagnosis of this disease have been developed, it requires two absolute criteria and supportive criteria. Optic neuritis and acute myelitis are the absolute criteria while brian MRI, spinal cord MRI and NMO-IgG seropositive status.
19099	Patients who develop Dextrocardia are often diagnosed even during fetal development through ultrasound images.
19100	Diagnosis of this condition can be done through ultrasound or X-ray. Images of the heart, spleen and liver are captured through these devices and analyzed by radiologists.
19101	Diagnostic test to determine the level of blood glucose, calcium, and bicarbonate to distiguish DI from other diseases that also cause excess urination.
19102	Diagnosis of Diabetes is commonly done using the blood and subjecting it to several different laboratory tests like blood glucose testing. Glycosylated hemoglobin levels (glycohemoglobin or hemoglobin A1C) are also subjected to testing, and the glucose tolerance test.
19103	Screening for this disease should begin at the age of 45 and repeated every three years there after for people without risk factors. For those with risk factors it and begin earlier and repeated often . People who are obese, have first-degree relatives who have the disease, suffer hypertension, have hypertriglyceridemia or a history of having abnormal glucose homeostasis.
19104	Constant check-up and monitoring of people especially those that are suffering from diabetes should be done. Problems in the vascular vessels of the heart,eyes, limbs, kidneys and brain should be avoided.
19105	Prompt diagnosis is essential if you experience a diabetic coma. A physical exam will be done by the emergency medical team and your medical history may be asked from those who are accompanying you. Your ketone level, blood sugar level, the amount of nitrogen or creatinine , the amount of potassium in your blood and the proportion of red blood cells and fluid in your blood (hematocrit) may be measured by your doctor from various lab tests.
19106	Diagnosis is based on the skin condition done by physical examination. In most cases, the blood sugar is also checked.
19107	Diagnosis is based on the blood sugar level that reaches 600 mg/dL or even higher. The nitrogen and the creatinine levels are also checked to make sure the kidneys are still working properly.
19108	Suspecting diabetic ketoadosis, a doctor will do various blood tests and physical exams. The blood tests measure the blood acidity, blood sugar level and ketone level.
19109	As a long-term complication of the Diabetes mellitus, diagnosis of this disease ofetn follows the same diagnostic tests, such as laboratory exams of urine samples.
19110	Diabetic neuropathy diagnosis is base on symptoms and a physical exam. Electromyography and ultrasound of the arteries also diagnosed the disease.
19111	Your doctor may diagnose diabetic retinopathy with a dilated eye exam. He will look for damage to the nerve tissue, abnormal blood vessels, swelling, blood or fatty deposits in the retina, retinal detachment, growth of new blood vessels and scar tissue and bleeding in the clear, jelly-like substance that fills the center of the eye (vitreous).
19112	There are two screening used to identify DBA. In blood testing, it will show low reticulocyte and erythroid precursers found in the bone marrow, macrocytosis, increased fetal hemoglobin, increase level of adenodine deaminase and the presence of congenital abnormalities. Patient with DBA are mostly diagnose during their second year of life.
19114	Your baby's doctor, right after birth, will perform an overall physical examination including a chest x-ray to check if there are abnormalities of the diaphram, lungs, and intestine. An arterial blood gas is also done to evaluate the breathing abilities of the baby's. Other tests which may also be performed may include blood testing for chromosomes to examine if there is presence of a genetic problem, and and echodiogram or an ultrasound of the heart.
19115	The condition is diagnosed by the symptoms exhibited by the patient.
19116	Prenatal diagnosis involves DNA and chorionic villus studies. Another very accurate prenatal diagnosis is the use of ultrasonography.
19117	LPI disease is diagnose through biochemical examination of the urine and mutation gene testing from the DNA.
19119	DISH can be diagnosed by physical examination as well as the symptoms presented by the patient.
19120	A patient who are suspects of DPLD is advice to have chest x-ray, pulmonary function testing, blood testing, high CT Scan of the thorax to identify DPLD. A lung biopsy test is also needed if the the medical history and imaging test cannot ruled-out the specific diagnosis and malignancy of the disease.
19121	The disease can be diagnosed through molecular analysis of the affected genes.
19122	The immediate diagnosis of DiGeorge Syndrome is fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) during pregnancy to detect deletion of chromosome 22.
19123	Dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase deficiency diagnostic procedures include administration of different laboratory or clinical observations including taking up of the patient's medical history.
19124	Identification of Dilated cardiomyopathy are the following, chest X-ray shows enlargement of the heart and pleural effusion. electrocardiogram (ECG) shows the abnormal contraction of the heart. Echocadiogram also identify ejection fraction of the heart. cardiac catherization and coronary angiogrphy are performed to prevent considering the ischemic heart disease.
19126	It is identified physically right after birth, some patient recognized the abnormalities after second months of life.
19127	It is identify through the symptoms shows by the patient and it is compatible with the positve laboratory result of corynebacterium diphtheriae.
19129	A serologic testing such as Anti- Nuclear Testing and Anti- Extractable Nuclear Antigen (anti-ENA) are done to diagnose SLE, but anti-smith and anti-dsDNA antibodies are more specific. Other exam that support SLE diagnosis are Immune system level test, electrolytes and renal function test, liver enzyme and complete blood count.
19130	Performing developmental screenings at well-child visits may be done by the doctor if you suspect that there's a delay in your child's development or loss of age-appropriate skills.
19131	Aside from physically examining your shoulder, the doctor may try using an X-ray to show the dislocation and reveal broken bones. The doctor may also use MRI and electromyography in order to measure the electrical discharges produced in your muscles.
19132	Doctors may order for an X-ray or for an MRI aside from physically examining your injury in order to diagnose the dislocation of your joint.
19133	To make a diagnosis of schizophrenia, there are no blood or brain-imaging tests that can be used since diagnosis of any schizophrenia subtype may change even if the disorganized symptoms may dominate the picture at the time of initial assessment.
19134	The widening of the aorta on chest x-ray, sudden tearing or ripping chest pain and blood pressure difference between right and left arms are among the signs and symptoms that will lead to the suspicion of doctors of an aortic dissection.
19135	To make a diagnosis, doctors usually study the symptoms of the patient, along with physical examination and interview. Laboratory tests may also be done to eliminate other forms of neurological disorders.
19136	Family assessment should be done help identify history of Distal Myopathy, electromyography is a test that measures electric response in the muscles, and immunologic and molecular testing shows mutation of genes. Muscle biopsy and serum creatine kinase test also helpful in diagnosing Distal Myopathy.
19137	Differential diagnosis are often employed to diagnose this disease. It includes testing for ischemic colitis, colon cancer, irritable bowel syndrome, inflammatory bowel disease. Bleeding from the rectum or anus has also been reported by some patients and they are studied with a CT scan.
19137	Ct Scan is most liable diagnostic test used to diagnosed diverticulitis. Other test such as barium enema and colonoscopy are not advisable in acute phase due to the higher chance of perforation.
19138	In order to diagnose this disorder, doctors will likely ask you a number of questions. Your doctor will try to determine the cause and may ask if your dizziness is causing you to lose your balance, or is it causing the room to spin or produces a sensation of motion, or is it associated with a feeling of faintness or lightheadedness or is it accompanied by ringing or fullness in your ears (tinnitus) or trouble hearing.
19139	Dizziness is diagnosed based on the symptoms experienced by the patient.
19140	Differential diagnosis are often applied to both inherited and non-inherited cases of Ichthyosis vulgaris. Laboratory tests on skin tissue samples are also being administered with careful monitoring of the patient.
19141	To diagnose the disease, cardiologist will perform physical examination by listening to the lungs and the heart and also take note of other observations which may help in the diagnosis. Also a combination of medical tests are also administered to diagnose these defects like Cardiac characterization, Cardiac Magnetic Resonance Imaging, and Echocardiogram.
19142	In diagnosing a double uterus, the doctor conducts a routine pelvic exam and observes a double cervix or an unusually shaped uterus. Suspecting an abnormality, he or she may recommend tests such as MRI, Hysterosalpingography, Ultrasound, Laparoscopy and Hysteroscopy.
19144	Downs syndrome can be detected even before a child is born. Prenatal screenings are being run to determine if the fetus is normally developing. Tests includes triple screen test, quad screen, AFP or free beta screen, PAPPA screen, and nuchal translucency screen test.
19145	Laboratory and or clinical tests may be administered to diagnose the disorder.
19146	Several laboratory and physical examinations will be administered to a patient with suspected case of Dracunculiasis.
19147	Doctor diagnose Dressler's syndrome from the symptoms presented. Diagnostic test such as blood test, echocardiogram, and electrocardiogram are usually done to provide a more definitive diagnosis.
19148	Edemas are detected by radiography, CT scans and MRI.
19150	Diagnosis of the disease can be done by examining the patient's given symptoms and measuring abnormal levels of enzymes that can cause liver disease.
19151	Diagnosis includes oral examination as well as review of medical history of the patient. Blood tests as well as imaging scans of the salivary glands may also be conducted.
19152	Diagnosis is typically based on physical examination, medical history of the patient and other factors such as bathing habits, diets and skin care regimen.
19153	A Diagnosis is performed by an oral surgeon or dentist performing a dental examination as well as interview of the symptoms. X-rays may also be conducted to rule out other possible conditions.
19154	A full case history is usually taken to distinguish between these many conditions. The person conducting the clinical test must be very persistent in examining the abduction and the adduction, and also in looking for any other associated eye opening changes or changes involving the head posture, when trying to determine what always presents as a common squint in children may in fact be Duane syndrome.
19155	There are plenty of protein that is resistant to canalicular multi-drug, which also causes the transfer of bilirubin to the bile canaliculi. An isoform of this very protein is applied locally to the lateral hepatocyte membrane, thus allowing the transport of glutathione conjugates and glucuronide back to the blood. Analysis of some urine porphyrinsa also show a normal level of the coproporphyrin but I isomer accounts for a large rate of 80% compared to the normally 25% only. Liver will have a color of dark pink or black because of the accumulation of pigments. The conjugated hyperbilirubinemia is a result of defective endogenous and exogenous transfer of anionic conjugates from hepatocytes into the bile.[1] Pigment deposition in lysosomes causes the liver to turn black.
19156	The pathogenisis of Dubowitz syndrome is not yet identified and there is no medical tests that can diagnose the disease definitely. The main method to diagnose this disorder is by identifying the facial phenotype.
19157	When DMD is initially detected after examination of the patient. doctors would usually useCPK or the creatine phosphokinase to be able to test and determine the extent of muscles damage. This test would measure the amount of CPK in the blood. In DMD patients CPK leaks out of specific muscle cell present in the bloodstream, so a high level (nearly 50 to 100 times more) confirms that there is muscle damage. Affected people may have a value of as high as 15,000 to as much as 35,000iu/l (normal = 60iu/l).
19158	Diagnosis is usually based on mammography results of both breasts which may show some specks that may indicate microcalcifications. Biopsy may also be conducted to determine and evaluate the affected tissue of the breast. This can help eliminate the possibility of breast cancer as well as help determine the type of treatment would best suit the patient.
19159	Diagnosis is usually performed by studying the patients medical history and evaluating signs and symptoms. Patients which have recently undergone a stomach injury are more likely to develop after a stomach injury.
19160	The diagnosis of duodenal atresia is usually confirmed through conducting a radiography. An X-ray of the abdomen of the patient often shows two large air filled spaces, which is more commonly referred to as the so-called "double bubble" sign. The air appears to be cornered in the duodenum and the stomach. Since the approach of the duodenum is downright in duodenal atresia, no air is seen distal to the duodenum.
19162	The diagnosis is largely based on the symptoms presented by the allergic reaction to dust mitres.
19163	During a child's development, the unusual shortnessr of stature brings medical attention to the child. Skeletal dysplasia, the underlying cause of "dwarfism" is usually suspected due to the obvious physical features (e.g., unusual structure of the patient's face or the unique shape of skull, may arise from the obviously afflicted parent, or because body measurements such as the arm spa along with the upper to lower segment ratio that would indicate disproportion. Bone x-rays are known to be the okey to diagnosis of a specific form of skeletal dysplasia, but they are not the key diagnosis. Majority of children with the suspected skeletal dysplasias are asked to be referred to a qualified genetics clinic for further and more extensive diagnostic confirmation as well as genetic counseling. In the past decade, genetic testings to detect some of the medical disorders have become readily available. During the initial evaluation for shortness of stature, the absence of disproportion along with other clues mentioned above usually indicate other underlying causes than bone dysplasias. Extreme shortness of stature along with complete normal proportions are sometimes indicative of growth hormone deficiency or what is known as pituitary dwarfism. Short stature alone, in view of the absence of any other type of abnormalities, may simply be brought about by genetic, particularly if a person is born into a family of people who are relatively short.
19164	In most cases pf treatment of primary dysautonomia are both symptomatic and supportive. Measures are used to effectively combat orthostatic intolerance including the elevation of the patient's head of the bed, more frequent intake of small meals, a high-salt diet, fluid intake, and compression hose. Drugs such as the fludrocortisone, ephedrine,midodrine, and SSRIs can also be used to treat the said symptoms. The treatment of dysautonomia can be rather difficult one individual may , which helps lessen the actually worsening of the the symptoms of another. Often medication and the measures that are helpful are usually found through trial and error.
19166	Dysplastic kidneys are prevalent in roughly around 95% to 100% of all identified cases. When this medical condition occurs, microscopic cysts are found to develop well within the kidney and s lowly affects the kidney function and eventually destroys it, thereby causing it to grow and enlarge to as much as 10 - 20 times its original size. The level of the amniotic fluid within the womb may be found to be significantly altered or remain to be quite normal, and a normal level of the fluid should not be used as a main criteria for the exclusion of the diagnosis. Occipital Cepholocele is also found to present in 60% to 80% of majority of the cases wioth the similar condition, and post-axial polydactyly is present in 55% to 75% of the total number of identified cases. The bowing or the shortening of the patient's limbs are also found to be quite common. Finding at least two out of the three prevailing features of this classical triad, in the presence and in view of the normal karyotype, makes the diagnosis for Dysencephalia splachnocyxtica more solid and definitive. Regular ultrasounds are required to monitor progress and the pro-active prenatal care can usually help effectively detect symptoms early on in the pregnancy.
19167	Lab testing algorithm is present to diagnose dysfibrinogenemia, familial. Testing starts with screening tests that are nonspecific but very sensitive, and then goes on to several other tests that are more specific than the previous ones. The testing algorithm is normally used in patients whose bleeding issues have not been explained by acquired entities.
19168	Metastasis has been noted in approximately 22% of cases at time of diagnosis. Males are said to be approximately twice as commonly afflicted in the development of germinomas. Germinomas have been known to be among the most commonly diagnosed conditions between ages of 10 and 21. Often the serum as well as the spinal fluid found in the tumor are key markers of AFP and beta-HCG are also tested. Pure germinomas are often not associated with such markers. Nongerminomatou type of germ cell tumors may be associated with the increased markers such as AFP that comes with the yolk sac tumors along with the immature teratomas, embryonic cell carcinomas and beta-HCG which typically occur in choriocarcinomas. It should also be noted that in about 1-15% of the germinonas have a low level of beta-HCG may be produced. While this has been considered to be highly controversial, there are some supporting theories and thoughts that establishes HCG-secreting germinomas to be more common and more aggressive than the nonsecreting ones.
19169	Writing self-generated sentences and paragraphs and copying texts appropriate to age can help the examiner to assess not only the completed work but also the process in how it was done to arrive at the diagnosis of dysgraphia.
19170	In most cases, doctors can diagnose dyshidrosis based on a physical exam. A skin biopsy may also be conducted to confirm the diagnosis as well as rule out other forms of skin problems.
19171	Diagnosis of the disease includes various tests to find out presence of bone marrow damage or failure, neurologic disorder, mucosal malignancies, and pulmonary problems. Tests done are based from the clinical results and may require other screening methods like chest radiography, CBC count, stool tests, and pulmonary function examinations.
19172	Sometimes, doctors wrongly diagnose symptoms to insomnia, stress, nervousness, muscle cramps, aging, or arthritis. NO single diagnositc test is available. However, dyskinesia can be clinically diagnosed through the evaluation of the patient's symptoms and medical history.
19174	Vision, hearing, and neurological evaluations can help determine if there is an underlying disorder or cause for the child's poor reading skills. Psychological assessment if there is any social problem or anxiety causing limitations in the child's ability. Educational tests evaluated and analyzed by an expert is helpful to measure the reading ability of a child in the aim to diagnose dyslexia.
19175	Diagnostic tests can be done by gauging the child's ability to read, write and solve simple mathematical problems.
19176	Dyslexia in children can be observed in one's pace in language abilities.
19176	Dyslexia can be observed by monitoring the child's learning development during his early years.
19177	Computerized Tomography (CT) scan and Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) can detect abnormalities inside the pelvis and can diagnose the cause of secondary dysmenorrhea. Laparoscopy is a surgical procedure that allows the doctor to view the abdominal cavity. Hysteroscopy involves insertion of a direct-viewing instrument through the vagina to examine the cervical canal and inside of the uterus.
19178	The syndrome can be diagnosed based on the metabolic levels measured on the patient's body system.
19179	Diagnosis of dysmorphophobia is normally difficult because patients would rather keep the symptoms to themselves. Diagnosis is solely based on the patient's symptoms. Medical, social and pyschological history of the patient are evaluated.
19180	Dysmotility can be diagnosed based on the symptoms disclosed by the patient.
19181	Since dysostosis os hereditary, knowing the medical history of the family is crucial in making the right diagnosis. Also, x-rays can show the following: undergrowth of scapula and clavicle, and the tendency of the body's pubic symphysis to close.
19182	Diagnosis is mostly base on interview of patients on their symptoms. Other medical evaluation may include a thorough interview of the medical history, pelvic examination, and other medical exams to further determine as well eliminate other possible causes.
19183	X-ray of the stomach and small intestine Upper Gastrointestina Endoscopy Helicobacter pylori (H. pylori) Stomach Bacteria test Gastrointestinal or "Whole Gut" Transit Study - measures bowel movement Gastric Accommodation Test - to measure how much the stomach expands Satiety (Liquid Meal) Test - to measure volume of liquid that an individual can drink and feeling of fullness Gastroduodenal Manometry - to measure volume of nerves and muscles involved in the digestion
19184	Diagnosis may include barium x-ray, laboratory tests, contrast study, ultrasound and gastric emptying study. Further studies are often conducted to eliminate other possible causes such as ulcer, gall stones and other stomach-related illnesses.
19185	Barium x-ray is ordered to detect changes in the esophagus and to evaluate muscle activity. Endoscopy passes an endoscope down the throat to view the esophagus. Manometry measures the muscle contraction of the esophagus when swallowing.
19186	Dysphasia is diagnosed by the characteristics presented by the patient during his early stages of development.
19187	Dermoscope is an instrument that has the ability to magnify the internal structures of a nevus and can be utilized for diagnosis.
19188	In general, some imaging studies on the affected areas are not necessary. Dermoscopy can be used to properly evaluate some pigmented lesions
19189	Dyspraxic children appear no different from children who don't have the condition; this makes diagnosis of the condition difficult.
19190	Diagnosis for this medical condition includes imaging tests such as MRI,EEG,CT scans and ultrasound. Eye and skin exams may also be conducted to rule out other forms of tumors. In cases where a child is afflicted with dysrhythmias,it is often advised that both parents also under diagnosis since this is a genetic problem.
19191	Quite often Dysthymia usually go undetected among patients. However, symptoms of depression are one of the best indicators of this medical condition which can be detected by an intensive psychological interview.
19192	Extensive psychological interview and evaluation is carried out to establish DSM-IVTR criteria, which is necessary in the diagnosis of dysthymic disorder. Beck Depression Inventory and Hamilton Depression Scale are psychological tests that can be conducted to aid in the diagnostic process of dysthymic disorder.
19193	A full physical examination is primarily conducted. A CT scan and MRI can also help significantly detect possible cause of brain defect or trauma. Blood examinations may be also done to check levels.
19194	Diagnosis for this disease includes an evaluation of the symptoms conducted by a brain specialist. Medical history is also assessed to determine if there have been any previous accounts of such disease in the family. Other diagnostic tests are also conducted such as urine and blood, and MRI and ECG.
19196	Eagle-Barrett syndrome can be diagnosed during pregnancy via ultrasound and X-ray procedures.
19197	No clinical laboratory tests are currently available to provide a definitive diagnosis for Eales disease. However, laboratory tests are still conducted to rule out other possible medical conditions. Among the usual tests include the blood glucose count, sickle cell and complete blood count to check the possibility of hemoglobinopathies.
19198	Diagnosis is typically based on examination of the ear along with some tests such as typanometry and acoustic reflectometry. Like most forms of infection, early detection is crucial to administer appropriate treatment approach.
19199	Diagnosis is mainly based on ear examination using an otoscope. If eardrum is ruptured the bones of the middle ear becomes visible. Typically, fluid samples are taken for further laboratory studies.
19200	To help doctors diagnose early menopause, patients are usually interviewed about the signs and symptoms experienced, the menstrual cycle as well as the possible exposure to toxins such as radiation therapy and chemotherapy. Other examination includes a pelvic test and blood test that usually include pregnancy tests, and follicle stimulating hormone test.
19201	The best doctor to diagnose early puberty is those who specialize in pediatric endocrinology since this is a hormone-related condition. Hand and wrist x-rays are often conducted to determine the age of the bones, and if it is aging prematurely for the child's age. Blood tests and other laboratory exams are also conducted to determine hormone levels.
19202	Health providers perform a physical examination and look for signs of ear blockage. A microscope is also occasionally used to remove the wax.
19203	Emotional eating can be diagnosed via observation of abnormal eating habits. Rapid changes in one's weight can also help determine the disorder.
19204	Some type of specialized laboratory exams are required for the diagnosis of Ebola hemorrhagic fever as handling blood samples is very dangerous and considered as an extreme biohazard. Tissue samples may also be derived to provide a more definitive study of the said disease.
19205	Thorough cardiac tests are conducted to check the extent of the heart defect. It is important that this case should be handled by qualified practitioners.
19206	Echolalia can be diagnosed via strict observations in the child's stages of speech and language development. This condition is commonly expected among autistic children.
19207	Blood pressure is usually closely monitored, blood tests to derive platelet count as well as urine and weight tests. A fetal monitor is also used to check the condition and activity of the fetus.
19208	Diagnosis is done through the symptoms reported by the patient.
19209	Majority of the cases are detected through prenatal ultrasound. An echocardiologist usually confirms the diagnosis.
19210	Physical exam alone may not detect Ectopic heartbeat especially if it does not occur frequently. Continuous ambulatory cardiac monitoring or Holter monitor, ECG, echocardiogram, and coronary angiography are the tests involved in diagnosing the condition.
19211	An ectopic pregnancy may be suspected in pregnant women with lower abdominal pain or suffer from unusual bleeding. A vaginal ultrasound scan is usually used to derive presumptive evidence.
19212	Ectrodactyly is easily diagnosed through physical examination, which is noticeable right after birth.
19213	Diagnosis of eczema is based on skin examination and review of medical history.
19214	A physical examination is all that is needed to diagnose dyshidrosis in most cases. However, there are times that a skin biopsy is required to rule out other causes.
19216	Among the diagnostic tests involved in edema aside from checking a patient's medical history are albumin levels, ECG, echocardiography, serum electrolyte tests, urinalysis, x-rays, liver functions tests, and kidney function tests.
19217	Karyotyping provides a definitive diagnosis for Edward's syndrome, which involves blood sampling or getting bone marrow samples to study chromosomes under the microscope.
19218	Diagnosis may be based on the symptoms presented by the patient. To confirm, various test may be conducted such as skin tests and blood tests.
19219	An allergy specialist would usually conduct a skin allergy test to determine the specific substances that a patient may have an allergic reaction to.
19220	The diagnosis for Ehlers-Danlos Syndrome includes the presented symptoms as well as taking into account family health history. Skiin biopsy is also required to be able to come up with a more definitive diagnosis.
19221	Diagnosis will be largely based on the symptoms presented. Blood test may also be conducted as well as a physical examination to derive a more definite diagnosis.
19222	Measles can be diagnosed based on the symptoms shown by the patient, as well as community indexing when an outbreak occurs.
19223	Children with the history of ASD or the atrial septal defect are most likely to suffer from this syndrome. Bloods tests and x-rays are usually conduction to diagnose patients.
19224	Diagnosis is done through medical observations derive from firsthand interview with the patient or the people around the person. Close observation as well as a through check of the patient's medical records as well as the family's medical records and history can also significantly help in getting a definitive diagnosis.
19225	Blood tests are usually conducted to check the presence of microfilariae in the blood, as well as seralogic testing and chest x-rays.
19226	Diagnosis is typically made based on the physical exam along with the symptoms that are already found at birth.
19227	Diagnosis include blood testing to detect the two genes EMD and EDMD that have been known to be the underlying cause of this disease. Molecular genetic testing is typically conducted as well as study of the family medical history.
19228	There is no way to diagnose a patient w/ emetophobia. However you can spot with this fear because of the symptoms like for instance- avoiding to go on public transport, making excuses to not see the doctor for thoughts of seeing someone ill or avoiding eating a lot.
19229	Diagnosis of emphysema starts with a medical history and examination. One way of diagnosing is by spirometry (lung function testing), including diffusion testing. Other investigations might include X-rays, high resolution spiral chest CT-scan, bronchoscopy (when other lung disease is suspected, including malignancy), blood tests, and pulse.
19230	Diagnosis of empty sella syndrome includes x-ray of the skull of the patient. Another way is through computed tomography. It is a non-invasive process that takes cross-sectional images of the brain or other internal organs; to spot any abnormalities that may not show up on an ordinary x-ray. Last procedure is through MRI.
19231	Chest x-ray provides an image of the lung and helps determine the condition of the lung. Computerized Tomography (CT) scan provides a more detailed and clearer image of the lung and its surrounding. Other diagnostic procedures used in diagnosis of empyema include Thoracentesis and pleural fluid gram stain and culture.
19232	Patients with encephalitis undergo neurological examinations to reveal a drowsy or confused patient. Stiff neck usually indicates that the patient has either meningitis. Cerebrospinal fluid examination obtained by a lumbar puncture procedure reveals increased amount of protein and white blood cells with normal glucose, though in a significant percentage of patients, the cerebrospinal fluid by maybe normal. Lumbar puncture procedure is usually performed only right after the likelihood of the prominent brain swelling has been excluded through conducting a CT scan examination
19233	Diagnosis is usually based on clinical findings and patient history. The identification of the said virus in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) or in the blood would positively confirm the said diagnosis. Arboviruses and herpes viruses can be isolated by inoculating young mice with specimens taken from patients. In the case of herpes encephalitis, a number of serologic studies may possibly show some rising titers of the complement-fixing antibodies. The virus-specific indirect fluorescent on the antibody assays will significantly improve the diagnosis. An EEG may also reveal several abnormalities. Occasionally, a computed tomography scan can be ordered to effectively rule out the possibility of cerebral hematoma.
19234	More often encephaloceles are dramatic abnormalities diagnosed immediately after birth, but occasionally a small encephalocele in the nasal and forehead region can go undetected. Hydrocephalus that is often associated with encephaloceles may also require some surgical treatment with a shunt. Other treatment is supportive and symptomatic.
19235	A doctor that suspects encephalocele anencephaly can perform pregnancy ultrasound to confirm diagnosis. Ultrasound can reveal severe fluid in uterus. Other tests include amniocentesis, estriol level in urine, and alph-fetoprotein level.
19236	Thorough physical examination is conducted. A series of tests can be expertly conducted, including a magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) on the patient's brain as well as the spinal cord to look for possible growth of lesions, or areas of damage that may be indicative of ADEM and possibly rule some other types of disorders including multiple sclerosis (MS). Lumbar tap can alsp help determine if there are any abnormalities in the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) is alsp commonly conducted.The CSF is actually the fluid that bathes, protects as well ass cushions the spinal cord and the brain from any injury or trauma.
19237	The disorder is analyzed definitively using medical history to search for distinctive pattern and kind of symptoms. Diagnosis requires involvement of the muscoskeletal symptomology and CNS.
19239	Fecal impaction may be seen thru digital examination of the rectal area while an abdominal x-ray may confirm the presence of impacted stool in the colon.
19240	End stage renal disease can be diagnosed by endoscopy, and by laboratory tests during the onset of other diseases.
19241	Tests that may be performed in the diagnosis of ASD include chest x-ray, echocardiography, transesophageal echocardiography, Doppler study of the heart, coronary angiography, cardiac catherization, MRI of the heart, and ECG.
19243	Patients' history, symptoms and findings may be confirmed by blood test. An echocardiogram or the ultrasound imaging study of the heart valves and msucles may also be helpful in identifying any presence or development of clump of bacteria on the heart valve.
19244	The most important investigation to do to diagnose the patient is by Blood culture. Other diagnostic tests to run include, echocardiography, ECGs (MI), and Chest X-Ray.
19245	Different laboratory tests are being done to many samples. Urine, blood, skin tissue or bone samples are then collected. Differential diagnosis is also administered to distinguish what type of disease is the patient suffering from.
19246	In the early stages of the disease, a pelvic examination is normal. Other tests to diagnose the disease include Pap smear, endometrial aspiration or biopsy, and dilation and curettage.
19246	If endometrial cancer is suspected, a gynecologist needs to be consulted. A gynecologist will usually perform a pelvic exam to determine lumps or any anomalies in the uterus. To confirm the diagnosis, the physician may have to perform any of the following: an endometrial biopsy, a pap test, a transvaginal ultrasound, as well as dilation and curettage.
19247	A vaginal ultrasound, hysteroscopy, and dilation and curettage are among the procedures that can detect endometrial polyps. When there is endometrial hyperplasia, detection by ultrasonography can be difficult.
19248	Physicias believe that health history and subjecting a patients to physical examination can help the physician in the diagnosis. Imaging tests may also identify larger endometriotic areas, like the nodules or an endometriotic cysts. There are two most common imaging tests used, these are ultrasound and the use of magnetic resonance imaging or MRI. Still normal results of these tests do not mean that a person is free of endometriosis. The sure way to confirm is diagnosis using laparoscopy.
19249	There are many diagnostic techniques that are used to diagnose this disease. The most important and most common is blood testing. Next important method is the use of different imaging and diagnostic technology to detect some defects of the heart and others like the valvular dysfunction and arrhythmias by using echocardiography. Chest radiographs may also indicate pleural effusions or fibrosis. Neurological tests like CT scans can also show strokes and increase in the pressure of cerebrospinal fluid.
19251	Enuresis can be diagnosed based on the symptoms given by the patient.
19252	There are several tests to confirm the diagnosis besides from personal and family medical history and physical exam which your doctor will conduct before performing other clinical examinations. If one of the differential diagnosis of your doctor is cardiomyopathy (enlarged heart) following tests may include chest x - ray showing your heart to enlarged, echocardiogram produces images of your heart, electrocardiogram shows any disturbances in the electrical activity of your heart, cardiac catheterization and biopsy extraction of small sample of your heart and analyze in the laboratory, and blood test for an increase in brain natriuretic peptide (BNP) when your heart is in stress of heart failure which a complication of cardiomyopathy.
19253	A physical examination can usually detect most cases of enlarged liver. Doctors can estimate the size of the liver by feeling how far it extends below the rib cage. Diagnostic tests are done to help determine the cause, which include x-ray, ultrasound, computerized tomography, liver function tests, and liver biopsy.
19254	Tests to confirm the diagnosis of an enlarged prostate include transurectal ultrasound (TRUS), urodynamic pressure-flow studies, cytoscopy, and intravenous pyelogram or CT urogram. Another is the enzyme inhibitors or the 5 alpha reductase, which shrinks the prostate gland. In some cases, it is more effective to utilize combination drug therapy. There are also the so-called minimally invasive treatments namely microwave therapy, transurethral needle ablation (TUNA), and interstitial laser therapy (ILT). Surgical procedures include transurectal resection of the prostate (TURP), transurectal incision of the prostate (TUIP), laser surgery, and open prostatectomy.
19255	A physical exam usually detects the presence of an enlarged spleen. Examining the upper left abdomen, just under the rib cage, allows doctors to feel the enlargement. Blood tests, an x-ray, or other imaging studies can confirm the diagnosis of an enlarged spleen. An ultrasound or computerized tomography (CT) scan can help a physician determine the size of the spleen and assess if it's crowding other organs.
19256	The degree of gland enlargement can be determined by the doctor by examining the neck. Other diagnostic test may include a hormone test, antibody test, ultrasonography, and a thyroid scan.
19257	The doctor will do a medical and travel history review, will perform blood or fluid or tissue culture to check for the presence of the bacteria, antibody and antigen testing which are Enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) or Fluorescent antibody test is also done
19258	A pelvic exam is needed to confirm a diagnosis of enterocele. The doctor would require the patient to take a deep breath and hold it while bearing down. Also called the Valsalva maneuver, it will likely cause the prolapsed small bowel to bulge downward. If the doctor can't verify the condition in the said position, he or she may repeat the exam while the patient stand with one foot on a short stool.
19259	Enterocolitis can be diagnosed using laparoscopy, as well as other laboratory tests and imaging studies to detect intestinal problems.
19260	Entropion is diagnosed via physical examination and other ocular tests to detect lesions and spasms in the affected eye.
19260	The condition is diagnosed by physical eye examination.
19261	Doctors usually ask parents about the child's health history as well as the bed-wetting patterns. A physical exam will come next that may include urine tests. X-rays and other imaging studies of the kidneys or bladder may be required if the doctor suspects any anatomical abnormality.
19263	Eosinophilia is diagnosed using a very simple yet comprehensive blood test for eosinophilia in the bloodstream while presence of eosinophilia in the tissues sre often diagnosed by running and examination to tissue (relevant). Like a sample of a skin tissue are removed and then examined by a microscope.
19264	Endoscopy is the procedure conducted to diagnose the disease.
19265	To diagnose this condition, different tests are being applied like tests to determine the rate of Erythrocyte sedimentation, Blood tests aimed to check for gamma globulins which is a type of cell in the immune system, and also eosinophils, muscle biopsy, and skin biopsy
19266	There are three criteria suggested by Talley et al. and is still very widely used by physicians, this includes noting the presence of gastrointestinal symptoms, histological demonstration of some eosinophilic infiltration in one or other more areas in the gastrointestinal tract, presence of high level of eosinophil count in the ascitic fluid are also noted, if the patients have no evidence of any parasitic or an extraintestinal disease.
19267	Diagnosis of Eosinophilic granuloma may include the use of various tests like radiographs, bone scans, CT scans, or MRI.
19268	To diagnose patients with possible Ependymoblastoma is done through physical examination involving laboratory tests using imaging equipments run at the parts with the symptom.
19269	Ependyomoma is often diagnosed using imaging technologies like CT scan, MRI. Other laboratory exams and also tests are also being administered.
19270	A helpful test to check the condition is through the chair raise test. The patient is asked to stand behind their chair and lift the top of the chair back through their hands.
19271	As diagnosis, biopsy is preferred to be performed for early detection lesions may it be premalignant or malignant. Biopsy also allows for the identification of HPVs assosciated with Epidermodysplasia verruciformis. Most characteristics findings are found within the epidermis.
19272	Diagnostic procedures are being done to detect the existence of the cell. It includes staining using toluidine blue, and a complete examination of the head and neck. Physicians also perform a routinary hematologic examination. Imaging studies using CT scans also prove helpful to evaluate the extent ot the tumor in terms of growth and involvement of the nodes.
19273	Doctors can diagnose an epidermoid cyst through its appearance alone in most cases, though it may be referred to a dermatologist for treatment.
19274	To diagnose the condition, several clinical tests are run. It includes taking down the medical history of the patients including a review of systems information which can be helpful in associating it with various EB subtypes. A complete physical examination is also performed.
19275	Diagnosis for Epidermolytic hyperkeratosis includes taking down clinical symptoms or presentation and medical history, biopsies can also be diagnostic in the case of de novo cases. Keratin studies can also be performed. Prenatal diagnosis can be done through analysis of the fetal skin biopsies, chorionic villus sampling, and amniotic cells.
19276	Diagnosis of epididymitis can be difficult because it may be hard to distinguish one from the other. There can be case where both conditions occur simultaneously. Tests administered include test for testicular cancer, varicocele or check for a cyst growing within the epididymis. An overall physical examination and ultrasound is also done.
19277	It can be difficult to diagnose a hematoma. Generally, doctors presume that a progressive loss of consciousness after a head injury is caused by a hemorrhage inside the skull. Imaging techniques are the best methods to define the position and size of a hematoma. A computerized tomography or CT scan uses a sophiscticated X-ray machine linked to a computer to produce detailed images of the brain. A magnetic resonance imagine scan or MRI meanwhile uses a large magnet and radio waves to make computerized images.
19278	Epiglottitis is diagnosed by laryngoscopy. The disease is present when the arytenoids and the epiglottis are swollen and cherry red in color. Thumbprint signs on a lateral C-spine X-ray indicate epiglottitis as well.
19279	Epilepsy diagnosis usually requires that the patient is already having recurrent and unprovoked seizures. Diagnosis, accordingly, is usually based on the patient's medical history. an EEG, PET, doing a brain MRI, SPECT,and magnetoencephalography. These methods may be very useful to determine etiology for the epilepsy, also discover what region of the brain is affected, or one can classify the epileptic syndrome that the patient is suffering from. These studies, however, cannot help make initial diagnosis.
19281	Diagnosis of Epilepsy juvenile absence includes taking down medicine history of the patient and ask patients the following questions: * How old were you when your seizures began? What was happening around you when you had your first seizure? Does it seem like anything in particular triggers your seizures? What do you experience during your seizures? What do observers notice when you have your seizures? How long do the seizures last? How frequently do they occur? What treatments have you received for your seizures and what were the results of these treatments?
19282	Episcleritis is diagnosed using the slit lamp examination.
19282	Episcleritis is diagnosed using the slit lamp examination.
19283	Epispadias is confirmed by physical examination.
19284	Proper diagnosis of the disorder will entail different procedures a monospot test, eistein bar virus antigen by immunoflourescence, epstein barr virus antibody, complete blood count, and liver fucntion test.
19285	An exam with the help of a psychiatrist may be helpful to diagnose the extent of a patient's phobia.
19286	Diagnosis can be done even on early childhood years. It is often done with tests which will require the child to move his arms to check if it is fucntioning properly.
19287	Erdheim-Chester syndrome are diagnosed mainly by a radiologic osteosclerosis and histology. Coming up with an accurate diagnosis are often difficult because it is very rare and because of the required differentiation of the condition from other disorders. Diagnosis done from a neurological imaging is often not definitive. Symmetrical cerebellar and pontine signal changes which are present on a T2-weighted image seem typical of Erdheim-Chester disease, but multiple sclerosis and some diseases of metabolism must be taken into consideration in using the differential diagnosis. Biopsies can also be done as a diagnostic test for this disease.
19288	Diagnosis of Ergophobia can be done best through a Psychological exam.
19289	It is diagnosed by assessing the appearance of the rash Blood cultures is not liable but it can it is done to identify sepsis. Performing antistreptolysin O titre test after around 10 days of illness also helpful.
19290	Erysipeloid is confirmed due to the presence of the erysipelas in the affected areas.
19291	Erythema can be diagnosed via physical and dermatological examinations, as well as a skin biopsy to detect the presence of the bacteria on the skin.
19293	It is diagnosed through physical appearance of the rash. Skin biopsy is also taken to confirm the diagnosis.
19294	Generally, the condition requires simple diagnosis through examination of patient and its symptoms, without the need for further investigative tests.
19295	In diagnosing erythrasma, the doctor may try the Wood's lamp test (when examined under this ultraviolet light, the lesions glow a coral-red color) or culture of scrapings from the lesion.
19296	Erythroderma is treated depending on the cause of the disease after skin biopsy. But commonly it is treated through corcosteriod medication or anti inflammatory, also treared by using UV light therapy also called phototherapy, Chemotherapy and radiation therapy can also help treat the disorder. Prevention of the specific cause can also prevent the disorder.
19297	Erythromelalgia is most of the time a secondary illness for other disorders that must be determined. Some most common disorder associated with Erythromelalgia are Myeloproliferative disease, Hypercholesterolemia, Autoimmune disorder, Small fiber peripheral neuropathy, Fabry's disease, Mercury poisoning, Mushroom poisoning, Sciatica and some medications like verapamil, bromocriptine, ticlopidine, and pergolide.
19298	Erythromelalgia is diagnosed through physical assessment, MRI, CT scan and angiograpy. Erythromelalgia is often a secondary condition for other disorders. Primary disorder must be rule-out to diagnosed the disorder.
19299	Examination and check up of the area can determine the appearance of the swell. Laboratory tests are also done to differentiate it from any other condition which may appear simlar to Erythroplakia.
19300	Physical examination of the patient will help in the diagnosis of this disorder as well as information about the patient's medical history
19302	Stool culture by means of stool sample can reveal presence of Escherichia coli bacteria in the intestine and confirm diagnosis of Escherichia coli infection.
19303	Esophageal atresia can be visible for diagnosis some point in time just shortly before birth through an ultrasound. It can also be detected right after birth as infants affected with this condition are unable to swallow their own saliva.
19304	A complete history and physical exam may help find cause and other diagnostic tests like barium swallow (esophagram), and esophagoscopy (upper endoscopy) will help you to diagnose further. Test like bronchoscopy, computerized tomography (CT) scan, positron emission tomography (PET) scan and endoscopic ultrasound will help you stage the esophageal cancer.
19305	Most diagnostic procedures that are done include differential diagnostics to distinguish one from another. Medical imaging is also used to check the area where the problem is like ultrasounds or X-ray images. It will help also in deciding what treatment to administer for the specific disorder.
19306	Esophageal diverticulum can be diagnosed via imaging studies such as MRI and radiograph tests. Flexible endoscopy can also be performed to detect neoplasms in the esophageal tract.
19307	Diagnosis of esophageal tumors can be done using clinical evaluation of the tumor and by a histopathology.
19309	It may be difficult to diagnose esophageal spasms because of their similarity with other disorders such as GERD. To confirm a diagnosis, several methods including barium swallow or esophagram, esophageal motility test or manometry, and esophageal CT scan are performed.
19310	Esophageal stricture can be diagnosed by X-ray results, endoscopy and barium enema.
19311	Several diagnostic tests are available to detect an ulcer. Among those are upper gastrointestinal (upper GI) X-ray and endoscopy. Additional tests include blood tests, breath test, and stool antigen test.
19312	Esophageal varices are often diagnosed through administration of an endoscopy or looking inside the affected area of the esophagus through an medical equipment called endoscope.
19314	Diagnosis of Esotropia is done by an examination of the patient's eye.
19315	Commonly hypertension can be diagnose through Blood pressure mearement. Blood test also diagnose HPN in checking the Creatinine, Electrolytes , Glucose and cholesterol level. Urine exam to identify protienuria, chest x-ray and electrocardiogram also diagnose.
19316	Essential mixed cryoglobulinemia is diagnosed by blood serum test and skin biopsy.
19317	Laboratory tests to identify thrombocytopenia includes complete blood count, liver enzymes, renal function, vitamin B12 levels, folic acid levels, erythrocyte sedimentation rate, and peripheral blood smear. Bone marrow biopsy is done for final confirmation.
19318	To diagnose essential thrombocytosis,A complete blood count is done to determine the changes of platelet count and hematocrit count. Biopsy of the bone marrow is the most liable test to determine the disorder. DNA test also identify the presence of disease.
19319	Complete medical history and medical exam including neurological exam may help narrow down the diagnosis. Ruling out other differential diagnosis may undergo blood and urine test for such problem like thyroid disease and parkinson's disease.
19320	Ethylmalonic aciduria is always diagnosed during infancy. It is usually detected through urine sample by gas chromatogra - mass spectrometry, the appearance of the urine is not normal. This disease also identify by newborn screening with a tandem mass spectrometry perform during the week of the newborn.
19321	The diagnosis of this disorder is through blood exams, not just to identify haemolytic anaemia and immune thrombocytopenic purpura, but it also identify for positive direct antiglobulin test (DAT). Some antibodies may occur directed against immune cells has indicate better term of this disorder.
19322	There are many diagnostic test to rule- out ewing's sarcoma. We have magnetic resonance imaging that will show full bone structures, CT can also be used to distinguish the extent of the tumor. Both CT and magnetic resonance imaging are used to follow up the response of the treatment. Through X-ray it can be identify as ewing's sarcoma because it shows onion peel appearance.
19323	The disorder can be diagnosed based on the symptoms given by the patient.
19324	The disorder can be observed through the symptoms the patient demonstrates.
19325	This kind of disease is commonly identified through chest x-ray, it shows the inflammation of the alveoli and lung biopsy to confirmed for lipid pneumonia..
19326	Exopthalmus is identify thru the Measurement of the degree of exophthalmos is done by using an exophthalmometer.
19327	It is identify through head to toe assessment and x-ray imaging. Bone biopsy is done to confirm malignancy
19329	An Electroencephalography (EEG) is a measurement of electrical activity in the brain is recorded from the electrodes the is placed on the scalp of the patient during the attack helps diagnose the disorder.
19330	XDR-TB can be diagnosed based on the symptoms seen on the patient.
19332	Treatment of the condition is aimed at clearing the infection. Among the procedures are cleaning the outer ear or ear canal of any drainage and flaky skin, applying topical medications such as eardrops, oral medications such as nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), and lifestyle modifications.
19334	The presence of extradural hematoma can be confirmed through CT scans and MRI.
19335	The illness diagnosed by MRI.
19336	Bladder exstrophy is primarily diagnosed usually after birth through ultrasound, It is best to have a prenatal diagnosis to be able to make the necessary preparations for the baby such as scheduling the labor, pre-operative evaluations and surgery and well as preparations for supplementary care.
19337	Eye cancers can be determined via ophthalmological tests and other ocular laboratory examinations.
19338	Floaters are observed by doctors using an ophthalmoscope or slit lamp. Some floaters however are very small and doctors may not observe them thought to the sufferer, they appear large. Using background illumination may allow the person to obtain a better view of his or her own floaters. Using a pinhole to decrease pupil diameter may also do the trick.
19339	Regular examination of the eyes with the ophthalmologist is important for the early detection and diagnosis of eye melanoma. Doctors usually examine the eye and look for enlarged blood vessels that can indicate a tumor inside the eye. A method called ophthalmoscopy uses lenses and a bright light mounted in the doctor's forehead is one of the commonly used. Another is called the slit-lamp biomicroscopy, uses a microscope that produces and intense beam or line of light to illuminate the interior of the eye. To further evaluate a suspected melanoma, various methods are performed including ultrasound and angiography.
19340	A regular eye exam by an ophthalmologist is often the first step eye melanoma cancer diagnosis. The external part of the eye is usually examined to determine enlarged vessels that indicate the presence of a tumor. After which, an ophthalmoscopy is done to examine the inside of the eye using lenses and bright lights. As an alternative, a biomicroscopy may also be done, wherein a special microscope is used to illuminate the eye's interior. In cases where examining the interior of the eye does not support a definite diagnosis, further evaluation may be done in the form of standard imaging tests such as an eye ultrasound or angiograophy.
19342	Eyelid cysts are diagnosed based on the given symptoms.
19343	Doctors are able to diagnose blepharitis after carefully examining the eyes and eyelids. A special magnifying instrument during the examination may be used. Doctors may also collect a sample of the skin deposits to see if any bacteria are present.
19344	Laboratory tests are conducted to measure enzyme levels.
19345	Faced degeneration can be diagnosed based on the symptoms given by the patient as well as by X-ray findings.
19346	Tests to diagnose facial palsy include blood test for sarcoidosis or lyme disease, magnetic resonance imaging, electromyography (EMG), and nerve conduction test.
19347	Facial paralysis is readily evident through conducting physical examination as well as hearing tests,
19349	Diagnosis involves genetic testing to measure the size of D4Z4 deletion. However, this type of test can be very expensive. Other alternative testing include electromyogram, creatine kinase, muscle biopsy as well as nerve conduction velocity.
19350	The dishonesty on the affected person's part makes diagnosing Munchausen syndrome difficult. Doctors who do not find physical reasons for the symptoms refer patients to a psychologist or psychiatrist.
19351	Diagnosis for Factor II deficiency is typically made through a prothrombin time (PT) test as well as the activated partial thromboplastin time (aPTT) test .
19352	Factor V deficiency can be diagnosed through physical examination and tests. Tests and exams that are done may include Factor V assay, analysis of bleeding time, prothrombin time, thromboplastin time, and thrombin time.
19353	Factor V Leiden mutation can be detected through special blood tests. Physical examination and medical history may also be used for diagnosis.
19354	Diagnosis is based on medical history, physical examination, laboratory exams, and imaging tests.
19355	Diagnosis is based on medical history, physical examination, and tests.
19356	Diagnosis is based on medical history, physical examination, laboratory diagnosis, and tests.
19357	If a doctor suspects a bleeding disorder, several tests are done. Some tests include factor XI assay, partial thromboplastin time, bleeding time, and others.
19358	If Factor XIII deficiency is suspected, blood tests are performed. Other basis for diagnosis includes screening tests, functional assays, immunologic assays, and genotyping.
19359	Diagnosing Fahr's disease includes several approaches, such as clinical examinations and tests, tomographic scan, imaging scan, and psychiatric examination.
19360	Among the tests that can diagnose Vasovagal syncope are tilt table test, implantation of an insertable loop recorder, using a Holter monitor, echocardiogram, and electrophysiology study.
19361	If pain is experienced associated with fallen arches, X-rays are necessary. A CT-scan meanwhile is often ordered is a tarsal coalition is suspected. The doctor may recommend a magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) if a posterior tibial tendon injury is suspected.
19362	Diagnosis for a fallen bladder can be done by taking note of the symptoms and by running a complete physical examination of the vagina. X rays of the bladder are also taken which is done during urination to reveal the shape of the bladder.
19363	If the doctor suspects Fallot tetralogy after birth, he may use several tests to confirm diagnosis, including thorough blood count, chest X-ray, electrocardiogram, and others.
19364	Familial adenomatous polyposis is supposed after a complete history and examination. Diagnosis of FAP also requires genetic testing. The upper intestine can also be examined through endoscopic surveillance, as patients can also build up polyps there.
19365	Familial amyloid polyneuropathy, as with other types of amyloidosis, is diagnosed depending on the use of Congo red staining in biopsies. For several years, diagnosing the disease was done using rectal biopsy. Currently, diagnosis has been made more efficient through the use of subcutaneous fat aspiration.
19366	Familial emphysema can be confirmed by genetic counseling as well as physical and laboratory examination of the lungs.
19367	So far, no specific medical test is present to diagnose the condition. HOwever, some doctors use chromosome analysis or advise patient to undergo certain lab tests and x-rays to rule out other diseases.
19368	There is no specific test available to detect the condition. Once other diseases are ruled out, doctors make a diagnosis based on the signs and symptoms, family history, ethnicity, blood tests, and genetic testing.
19369	Since the disease is typically hard to diagnose, there have been several instances when patients were given the wrong diagnosis and treatment options. It should be understood that this disease is not the same as hypokalemia (very low potassium level) or hyperkalemia (very high potassium level).
19370	Diagnosis of the mutating part of the disease-causing gene can actually be detected through a blood testing. The family members who are carrying the same mutation can then be identified. Blood testing should be carrued out as early as the time when a member of the family has been found to be positive with the disease.
19373	The diagnosis is based on excessive loss of substances in the urine (eg, glucose, amino acids, phosphate, bicarbonate) in the absence of high plasma concentrations.
19376	Diagnosing this condition involves using a stethoscope to check abnormal sounds from the lungs known as rales (crackles). Chest x-rays may also be performed to find out any changes in the lung caused by recurring hypersensitivity pneumonitis.
19377	A basic eye exam can diagnose farsightedness. Routine eye care can be provided by an ophthalmologist, optometrist, and an optician.
19378	Fasciculations are determined by physical examination.
19379	There are various medical procedures to help diagnose the disease. Lab tests may include CBC count, serology, erythrocyte sedimentation,test for liver function, stool examination, and others. Imaging studies may be chest radiography, ultrasonography, MRI, CT scanning, or cholangiography. In some cases, bone marrow aspiration may be performed. Method of diagnosis varies from patient to patient.
19380	Diagnosis is based on genetic screening and tests, as well as history.
19381	Fatigue can be diagnosed once the presence of cancer is known to existent.
19382	Diagnosis is confirmed through physical examination, blood tests, ultrasound, and other tests.
19383	Diagnostic procedures for favism include complete blood count, liver enzyme tests, haptoglobin and direct antiglobulin tests.
19384	Fazio Londe syndrome is diagnosed through history, physical examination, and laboratory tests.
19386	The list below is the diagnostic tests done for febrile seizure: Check Body temperature Tests for fever EEG tests Diagnostic tests is not limited to the list above, the physician may require other tests depending on the condition of the patient.
19387	Fecal impaction is diagnosed via fecal tests and physical examinations.
19388	The doctor will ask questions like how often you experience the lack of ability to control bowels. Physical examination is also performed like visual inspection of the anus and the region lying among the anus and genitals for hemorroids, infections and other conditions. Digital exam is also performed to evaluate the strength of sphincter muscles and check for anomalies of the rectal area.
19388	Aside from checking a patient's history, the doctor may perform a digital exam by inserting a gloved and lubricated finger into the rectum to evaluate the strength of the sphincter muscles and to check for abnormalities in the rectal area. To pinpoint the cause of fecal incontinence, exams such as anal manometry, anorectal ultrasonography, proctography, proctosigmoidoscopy, and anal electromyography are performed.
19389	Feer disease is be diagnosed by the studying the symptoms as well as detection of trace amounts of mercury found in the blood serum.
19390	Diagnosis of the syndrome is based on history, physical examinations, and laboratory tests. The use of genomic DNA taken from blood or cheek swabs is analyzed through bi-directional sequencing of splice sites and coding regions of the MYCN gene. The method is anticipated to identify ninety-nine percent of existing intrageneic small mutations.
19391	Feline spongiform encephalopathy is diagnosed through observation and strict monitoring of symptoms, provided that the patient was exposed to affected animals prior to the onset of the disease.
19392	Diagnostic tests for Felty's syndrome depend on the symptoms shown by the patient.
19393	The disease is diagnosed via genetic testing.
19394	Fertility tests may include ovulation testing or a blood test for progesterone, hysterosalpingography, laparoscopy, ovarian reserve testing, and hormone testing.
19395	The disease can be diagnosed based on the symptoms shown by the patient as well as genetic counseling.
19396	The diagnosis will require physical examinations and tests. If Female pseudohermaphroditism is suspected, further tests may be done to confirm diagnosis.
19397	Affected individuals need to be forthcoming about their sexual history with the doctor during examination. Some may need a pelvic exam so the doctor can check any physical changes that may be the cause of the diminished sexual enjoyment. Some doctors may also refer patients to a counselor or a therapist if no physical causes are found.
19398	Feminisation can be diagnosed via genetic testing as well as observance of one's physical and behavioral attributes.
19399	There is no definite way to diagnose FAS before a baby is given birth. The doctor can look at the signs and symptoms of the child's initial months and years of life if your doctor knows you were been drinking while you were pregnant.
19400	Diagnosis of Fetal diethylstilbestrol syndrome is based on physical examination, history and laboratory tests. The diagnosis is confirmed through further tests, such as ultrasound and hysterosalpingogram.
19401	The disorder can be diagnosed by examining the symptoms shown by the infant.
19402	Fetal hydantoin syndrome is diagnosed through physical examination and history. If a doctor suspects the syndrome, other tests may also be done to confirm diagnosis.
19403	Diagnosis of fetal methyl mercury syndrome is based on history, physical examination, and tests.
19404	Fetal thalidomide syndrome is first diagnosed through the use of ultrasound examination during the first 17 weeks of gestation, which may already show visible abnormalities. Poor fetus development and growth as well as malformations and defects may also be readily detected during regular ultrasound examinations.
19405	Blood test for patients with fetal warfarin syndrome is usually unavailable and can prove to be not helpful, so laboratory references for this medical condition do not include blood tests. Toxicity is best measured through daily PT and INR ratio. CT scan as well as MRI may also be conducted to check possibility of intracranial bleeding.
19407	Diagnosing the cause of fever should include other associated symptoms and physical exam. additional tests is sometimes needed to confirm a diagnosis.
19408	The appearance or culture of the lesion can be the basis of diagnosis. Enlargement of the lymph nodes in the neck or groin may also be revealed during the examination. In order to reveal the herpes simplex virus, a viral culture or Tzanck test may be performed.
19409	The diagnosis can be done by genetic testing.
19410	Besides from thorough history and physical exam, biopsy of the affected area will also be needed.
19411	Fibrodysplasia ossificans progressive is usually diagnosed early on during the neonatal stage. Laboratory tests include checking the levels of alkaline phosphatase, biochemical studies, along with CT scans and bone scintigraph.
19412	A pathological examination may be needed for this disease. Some of the types of fibroma though are easily detectable - as the case for dermatofibroma.
19413	Fibromatosis is usually diagnosed through MRI,w hich can help show the intensity heterogeneity as well as infiltrative margins. MRI is also used to diagnose the level of invasion.
19414	Conventional angiography still remains to be the criterion standard to effectively detect Fibromuscular dysplasia along with its associated vascular lesion. Primary diagnosis for Fibromuscular dysplasia is usually considered in many young individuals that are presenting subarachnoid hemorrhage and stroke at such a young age. Conventional cerebrovascular ultrasonography, CT scanning and MRI can also be helpful in detecting ischemic strokes.
19415	Diagnosing fibromyalgia can be difficult since there is no single or specific diagnostic laboratory test. The presence of the symptoms is the primary indicators for diagnosis.
19416	An irregularly shaped, lumpy, or enlarged uterus may be revealed during pelvic examinations. Diagnosis is frequently reliable except among obese women. To confirm the findings, a transvaginal ultrasound or pelvic ultrasound may be preformed. To rule out potentially cancerous conditions, a D and C or pelvic laparoscopy may be necessary.
19417	The diagnosis for fibrosarcoma includes plain radiographs to evaluate the primary or secondary bone involvement. CT scans and MRI are also conducted to detect signs of fractures and check the size of the lesion as well as its involvement in the neurovascular structures. Bone scans and biopsy also assist in the diagnosis.
19418	For pulmonary fibrosis, a high resolution CAT scan may be needed. Cystic fibrosis may be checked through sweat testing.
19419	Diagnosis includes x-ray, CT scans and bone scans as well as bone biopsy.
19420	Besides the presenting rash and other symptoms, antibodies that are specific test for parvovirus infection are commonly used. It will indicate immunity, and recent parvovirus infection.
19421	The best way to identify the filariasis bacteria is through thick blood film, which should be drawn at night. PCR assays are also widely available to help in the diagnosis.
19422	Filovirus can be diagnosed during an outbreak via careful indexing of patients. It is a transmittable disease due to close contact with an infected person. A delicate procedure called polymerase chain reaction is then used to further study individual cases.
19423	Aside from physical examination in which the doctor checks the hand for signs and do maneuvers to measure the range of motion and grip strength compared to the healthy hand, X-rays, CT scan, or MRI may be required to definitively diagnose the fracture or ligament injury and pinpoint the exact location of the break.
19425	A tongue biopsy may be performed on the affected tongue, as well as histologic examination that will usually show a significant increase in the lamina proporia's thickness.
19426	Fistulas can be diagnosed via physical examination, as well as radiographic procedure and MRI.
19426	Fistulas can be diagnosed via physical examination, as well as radiographic procedure and MRI.
19427	Diagnosis usually involves cervical cultures for possibility of Chlamydia and gonorrhea, urine culture and urinalysis and stool guaiac. Ultrasonography may be also conducted to help eliminate the possibility of other underlying medical complications.
19428	The diagnosis for Fitzsimmons-Guilbert syndrome is usually based on the symptoms that are manifested by the patient. Subsequent lab tests needs to be done to eliminate the possibility of other medical complications that share some of the symptoms.
19430	If pain is experienced associated with flatfeet, X-rays are necessary. A CT-scan meanwhile is often ordered is a tarsal coalition is suspected. The doctor may recommend a magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) if a posterior tibial tendon injury is suspected.
19431	Based on history and physical exam, a hollow sound usually indicates presence of gas in the intestines. Further works up are needed to rule out conditions that are serious to cause flatulence.
19432	Blood cultures are usually conducted along with other laboratory tests to check for the symptoms that are associated with this particular medical condition. The presence of the aforementioned symptoms can be a strong indicator that the patient may be suffering from Flavimonas oryzihabitans.
19433	Flea bites are diagnosed by physical examination.
19434	Diagnosis is made through the nature of the wound and other underlying symptoms.
19436	The most useful method to diagnose a prolapsed mitral valve ior a floppy valve s echocardiography. Two and three-dimensional echocardiography provide images of the mitral leaflets relative to the mitral annulus. With this, measurement of the leaflet thickness and their displacement relative to the annulus is possible.
19437	Dentists can usually diagnose flourosis through close oral examination as well as conduct interview on the past medical conditions. X-rays can also be used to properly check if there are any defects in the teeth.
19438	A thorough physical exam is needed to diagnose the flu and a chest x-ray may be needed if pneumonia is suspected. Blood work may also be needed such as CBC, blood cultures, and sputum cultures. An antigen detection test meanwhile is the most common method of diagnosing the flu. If the flu is widespread in the community, no further testing will be required.
19439	Caloric testing and audiogram are conducted to check deafness and tinnitus. To check for possible nerve damage, MRI or CT scans are made to check for the possibility of other complications. If there is a suspicion of multiple sclerosis, MRI can prove to be highly useful. For ataxia, a psychometric testing may be done to derive a more definitive examination.
19440	There are ocassions when it is very hard to get a diagnosis of focal dystonia that is accurate because it is often thought to be some other nerve conditions like carpal tunnel syndrome, RSI, nerve entrapments, and a lot others. An accurate diagnosis of focal dystonia is very crucial, and fortunately, there are many neurologists who are capable of identifying it.
19442	Pathological examinations can reveal nerve cell conditions in the spinal cord. Abnormal dilation of vessels situated on the spinal cord's surface can be detected as well. Selective spinal MRI and spinal angiography are other means to properly diagnose Foix-Alajouanine syndrome.
19443	Foix-Chavany-Marie syndrome can be diagnosed through MRI scan and CT scan. Results may reveal lesions on each side of one's brain specifically in the Operculum. This specific brain part contains Broca's area. Broca's is the area responsible for speech and conversation production as well as for reading, and also for writing.
19444	Patients who are low in folic acid are diagnosed by physical examination or when symptoms occur.
19445	To diagnose folate deficiency anemia, low red blood cell folate level, a complete blood count (CBC), and a bone marrow examination may be performed.
19446	This is diagnosed by having an enlarged lymph node (or a part) removed for biopsy. Other needed tests may be x-rays, scans, and blood tests.
19447	Physician can simply diagnose a patient with folliculitis by looking at the infected skin. Other test is culturing and biopsy of an active lesion.
19448	The disease can be detected by PAH measurement taken from the blood serum in the affected patient's foot, as well as by genetic testing.
19449	A physical examination, blood and skin test are among the primary basis of a diagnosis of food allergy.
19451	Food poisoning is diagnosed by the physical symptoms present in the patient, since reaction to this condition is immediate.
19452	Diagnosis is done via observation of symptoms exhibited by the patient.
19453	Foot dorp is often diagnosed when undergoing physical exam but some cases would require additional tests such as magnetic resonance ikaging (MRI), electromyography (EMG) and nerve conduction studies.
19454	Foot ulcers can be diagnosed via examination of the lesions.
19455	People suspected of having this condition will need to have their enzyme levels tested, measured, and monitored. Genetic testing and screening may also be required.
19456	It is through visual inspection that the doctor can diagnose the condition. He or she may also take a biopsy or blood sample if they appear on the genitals from some sexually transmitted diseases that may look like Fordyce's spots.
19457	Doctors begin with a physical examination to diagnose if the individual has DISH or Forestier's disease. Any pain felt when pressure is applied on the spine can be a clue of the condition. In order to confirm the condition, x-rays of the upper back will be required. CT scan and MRI may also be helpful in diagnosing Forestier's disease and can rule out conditions that may cause similar signs and symptoms.
19458	No specific lab diagnostics can detect formaldehyde exposure. The severity of symptoms observed will be the best determinants of the actuality and extent of exposure.
19459	Diagnosis can be made as early as birth, infancy, or young childhood. Observing a child for generalized seizure attacks, stunned physique (or stature), and disproportional head circumference may lead to an early diagnosis of Fountain syndrome. Clinical evaluations and specialized tests may be undertaken like X-rays, CT scans, EEG, and hearing tests.
19460	Patients are recommended to immediately consult a doctor when like symptoms appear. Family medical history will be discussed and evaluated and your doctor may make a prescription from there.
19461	X-rays can reveal greenstick fractures but doctors may also require an ultrasound or computerized tomography (CT) scan if the fractures are difficult to see with X-rays. The difficulty comes from the fact that a child's bones may not show up well on X-rays.
19462	Growth plates are difficult to interpret on X-rays since they have not yet hardened into solid bone. In such cases, magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), computerized tomography (CT) or ultrasound may be required.
19463	The doctor will usually ask about signs, symptoms, and recent physical activity. Swelling or tenderness will also be considered. If a doctor suspects a stress fracture but X-rays appear normal, magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), bone scans, or computerized tomography (CT) may be needed.
19464	A fractured femur is diagnosed via X-rays and physical examination.
19465	Diagnosis can be done through cell culture (through folate deficient media). Here X-chromosome deficiencies and fragility will be assessed and analyzed. A more reliable method would be analysis of CGG repeat numbers and methylation status. These are done through Southern blot analysis and restriction endonuclease digestion.
19466	Diagnostic tests for the disease include physical examination of the symoptoms.
19467	Francois dyscephalic syndrome falls under the category of rare diseases. In the U.S., only less than 200,000 of the population are affected. Patients are advised to promptly seek medical advice once any of the symptoms are observed.
19468	Because of a high recurrence risk, families with a medical history of Fraser syndrome are strictly advised to undergo prenatal diagnosis and also counseling. Prenatal diagnosis should combine major and minor characterization. Positive diagnosis is an outcome whenever 2 major criteria + 1 minor are perceived (or a minimum of 4 minor criteria). Criteria for major characteristics are sibling with Fraser syndrome, Cryptophthalmos, Genital anomalies, and Syndactyly. For minor characteristics, alterations of the nose, ears, and larynx are points for consideration, as well as, oral clefts (lip or palate), umbilical hernia, and skeletal anomalies.
19469	DNA testing for FRAXA Syndrome is highly reliable. It can accurately detect if the ones tested are carriers or fully affected. Testing is done by blood extraction. People (most especially young children) are advised to have themselves tested once any of the symptoms are observed, more particularly developmental delay and mental retardation.
19470	No prenatal diagnosis is yet available. Observe child for abnormal physical features like small mouth, sunken eyes, dropped eyelids, Y-shaped chin dimpling, curyed spine, ad others.
19471	One particular diagnostic would be instructing a person to eat a lemon. If sweating is observed after one finishes eating the lemon wedge, said person is positive for Frey's Syndrome.
19472	Diagnosis may be through a thorough clinical examination. A full medical history needs to be documented and physical examination must be conducted carefully. Testing such as EMG and EKG may be required as well as MRI and CT scan.
19473	Frigidity is tested with laboratory tests-one's testosterone count is measured to determine frigidity.
19474	Diagnosis is made by observing the presenting symptoms of the individual. Diagnostic evaluations of endocrine and hypothalamic functions are also crucial in ruling out the disease. The syndrome should also be differentiated from its genetic counterparts.
19475	A detailed description of the signs and symptoms and performing a physical examination are often enough for doctors to diagnose seizure disorders. In frontal lobe epilepsy however, magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and electroencephalograms (EEGs) are often performed.
19476	A detailed description of the signs and symptoms and performing a physical examination are often enough for doctors to diagnose seizure disorders. In frontal lobe epilepsy however, magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and electroencephalograms (EEGs) are often performed.
19477	Diagnosis of FTD include subjecting the patient to MRI scan imaging, magnetic resonance spectroscopy, cortical thickness measurements, PET scans and functional imaging.
19477	Diagnostic tests for this mental disorder include a detailed medical history of the patient, study of the symptoms, neurological exam, and brain imaging tests.
19479	Frostbite can be diagnosed immediately based on existing environmental conditions and visible symptoms. To confirm the diagnosis, a physical examination may be done on the skin. If the affected region becomes white, hard, cold, and numb, frostbite is most invariably present. As the affected area begins to warm, the skin reddens, swells, and becomes very painful.
19480	Frozen shoulder can also be diagnosed if limits to the active range of motion (range of motion from active use of muscles) are similar or almost the same as the limits to the passive range of motion (range of motion from a person manipulating the arm and shoulder). An arthrogram or an MRI scan may confirm the diagnosis - although in practice this is rarely needed.
19481	Fructose can be diagnosed through a number of evaluative tools. An enzymatic assay can be done in order to check for the aldolase activity; a fructose tolerance test can be performed where the patient is injected intravenously with fructose and the levels of his or her fructose, glucose and phosphate are monitored. A non-invasive DNA testing can be done but negative results are not conclusive as well as a hydrogen breath test.
19482	Diagnosis is done through urinalysis where the urine will be positive for fructose.
19483	The diagnosis can then be done using the patient's history and reconstruction of events that occurred before, during, and after the patient's excursion.
19484	All patients with clinical or laboratory evidence of moderate to severe acute hepatitis should have immediate measurement of prothrombin time and careful evaluation of their mental status.
19486	The doctor will likely examine the patient's nails first. To test for fungi, the doctor may scrape some debris from under the nail for analysis.
19487	Like other types of meningitis, fungal meningitis is diagnosed via MRI and CT scan procedures. X-ray images are also used to determine the onset of the fungus in the brain tissue.
19488	The condition can be diagnosed by CT scan, pulmonary function tests and ECG.
19489	G6PD can be diagnosed via blood serum test and genetic counseling.
19490	Diagnosis can be made by observing the presenting symptoms. If there is a palpable mass the patient would be subjected to further evaluation. There are three possible diagnostic evaluation tools to be done before the disorder can be ruled in and these include subjecting the patient to mammography, ultrasonography, and core needle biopsy. Mammography and ultrasonography makes the tumor visible and defined. After the mass is characterized, a differential diagnosis can then be made. Core needle biopsy is done to evaluate whether the tumor is benign or malignant.
19491	Diagnosis of the disorder is done during newborn screening. This disorder is detected after birth.
19492	Diagnosis can be made by evaluating prolactin levels and observing other subsequent effects due to high levels of the said hormone. Too much prolactin can cause a woman's menstrual periods to cease and can lead to infertility. These are considered to diagnostic clues for Galactorrhea.
19493	Diagnosis of classic galactosemia should be done as early as possible to prevent any fatalities. This disease can be detected through a routine newborn screening.
19494	Diagnosis for Galactosemia can be done through a routine newborn screening.
19495	Gall bladder disease can be diagnosed based on clinical symptoms. If tenderness is found during an abdominal exam, gall bladder is almost always suspected. To confirm the diagnosis, any or a combination of the following may be done: abdominal CT scan, abdominal ultrasound, gall bladder radionuclide scan, abdominal x-ray, and a CBC to screen for elevated white blood cell count. In addition, gall bladder disease may also be determined if anomalies are found in the following tests: amylase, urine amylase, lipase, and chemistry panel test.
19496	In most cases, gallbladder cancer is detected accidentally through unrelated laboratory examinations. Because the disease is asymptomatic in its early stage, only a small percentage of cases are diagnosed before the cancer has advanced beyond repair. If gallbladder cancer is suspected, however, the following tests will help confirm the diagnosis: blood tests to screen for elevated bilirubin and phosphatase; an ultrasound; an endoscopic ultrasound (EUS); plus a computerized tomography scan (CT scan).
19497	An antenatal diagnosis may be done to detect Galloway Mowat syndrome.
19499	Gangliogliomas or gangliocytoma, are considered to be the second most common reason behind the occurrence of spinal cord tumors among children. Gangliogliomas, by their very nature, are classified as a rare disease under the domains of both oncology (the study of cancers and tumors) and of neurology (being within the realm of the central nervous system).
19500	Arthroscopy of the wrist is becoming available as an alternative to open excision of ganglion cysts. During arthroscopy, the root of the cyst can be seen. No immobilization is has to be done after arthroscopy.
19501	These environmental bacteria may enter the muscle through a wound and subsequently proliferate in necrotic tissue and secrete powerful toxins. These toxins damages nearby tissue, generating gas at the same time.
19502	The illness can be diagnosed by counseling and strict monitoring of the person's answers to questions.
19503	The disease is identified by using oral findings. The presence of multiple teeth that are impacted, supernumerary teeth that appear in excess of the regular set of teeth, and jaw osteomas, which lend a "wool-like" appearance to the jaws are signs of the presence of the disease. Multiple odontomas are also indicators of Gardner's syndrome.
19505	Doctors will often review dietary habits and symptoms. Avoiding milk is recommended for people who have lactase deficiency. The doctor will ask the patient to count how many times the patient passes gas. Other tests may be ordered which depends on the symptoms of patients and other factors.
19506	During the exam, the doctor may check to see if the abdomen is distended and listen for a hollow sound when the abdomen is tapped. A hollow sound often indicates the presence of excess gas.
19507	To diagnose gastric cancer, a physician must first eliminate all other possible causes of the patient's symptoms. To confirm the diagnosis, the following steps may be done: an upper endoscopy to examine anomalies in the gastrointestinal tract; an X-ray of the stomach; an endoscopic ultrasound to determine the extent of the tumor; a CT (computerized tomography) scan; an MRI (magnetic resonance imaging); and in some cases, a chest X-ray to check if the cancer has infiltrated the lungs.
19509	The doctor can often diagnose dumping syndrome by taking a careful medical history and then evaluating the signs and symptoms. If the person has undergone stomach surgery, that may help lead the doctor to a diagnosis of dumping syndrome
19510	Diagnosis can be done based on the symptoms shown by the patient, as well as by endoscopic procedures.
19511	Lymphomas are differentiated from gastric adenocarcinoma by lesions, which are ulcers characterized by thick, ragged, mucosal pattern on radiographs. The diagnosis for Gastric lymphoma is made during endoscopy through a biopsy. Endoscopic findings will likely yield the discovery of thick gastric folds, solitary ulcers, or mass lesions. Biopsies will require the use of larger forceps and endoscopic ultrasound-guided biopsy in order to help obtain tissues. CT scans are useful in determining at what stage the disease is in.
19512	In suspected cases, a doctor usually orders a barium meal test and gastroscopy to determine gastritis and related conditions such as peptic ulcers and gastric cancer. However, the most reliable way for determining gastritis is doing a biopsy during gastroscopy and checking for histological characteristics of gastritis and infection. For Helicobacter infection, which is the most common cause, one can test non-invasively with a urea breath test, stool antigen test, or blood antibody test.
19513	Few loose stools and vomiting may be the result of systematic infection such as pneumonia, septicemia, urinary tract infection and even meningitis. Surgical conditions such as appendicitis, intussusception and, even Hirschsprung's disease may mislead the clinician. Non-infectious causes to consider are poisoning with heavy metals, seafood. Secretory tumors and endocrine disorders are disorders that can cause diarrhea
19514	A CT scan showing irregular thickness on folds in the stomach and bowel area may indicate this diagnosis, alongside gastrointestinal symptoms and the absence of parasitic disease. A definite diagnosis is established with a histological evidence of the occurrence of eosinophilic infiltration, as manifested by patchy areas in the gastrointestinal tract and irregular thicknesses. This evidence is derived usually from microscopy, if not laparoscopy.
19515	One can be diagnosed of gastrointestinal anthrax based on the symptoms he demonstrates; given that he had consumed infected meat as a premise. Outbreaks can also be diagnosed via community indexing, thus tracking the patient who first ate infected meat.
19517	Diagnosis to confirm gastrointestinal bleeding is done via endoscopy.
19518	Smaller tumors can found to the muscularis propria layer of the intestinal wall. Large ones grow, mostly outward, from the bowel wall until the point where they outstrip their blood supply and necrose (die) on the inside, forming a cavity that may eventually come to communicate with the bowel lumen. As part of the analysis, blood tests and CT scanning are usually undertaken.
19519	Gastrointestinal stromal tumors can be diagnosed by CT scans, MRI and endoscopic measures.
19520	Gastric emptying studies - most accurate way in diagnosing gatroparesis Gastroduodenal manometry Upper gastrointestinal (GI) endoscopy Electrogastrogram MRI
19520	Gastroparesis can be diagnosed with tests like x rays, manometry, and gastric emptying scans.
19521	Among Ashkenazi Jews, Norrbottnian Swedes and where occurrence of Gaucher's disease is high, it is probable that a person suspected of Gaucher's disease will have family members previously diagnosed. Those for whom the disease is not inherited but instead randomly occur may face delayed diagnosis.
19522	In populations where Gaucher disease (like among Ashkenazi Jews, Norrbottnian Swedes, and some African tribes) is common, a person to be diagnosed may already have relatives previously diagnosed with the disorder. For those whose Gaucher disease is a sporadic occurrence (meaning it was not an inherited disease), the diagnosis may be delayed due to the uniqueness of the symptoms.
19523	Because the disease is autosomal recessive, the disease is hereditary. It is for this reason that a patient suspected of having Gaucher's disease will likely have a positive diagnosis if other family members have previously diagnosed. Those for whom the occurrence of the disease was sporadic, there may be some delay in the diagnosis because symptoms are protean and may vary as to which will manifest and to what extent.
19524	As the disease is an autosomal recessive inheritance disease and thus hereditary, any person suspected of having the disease will likely have a positive diagnosis if other relatives were previously positively diagnosed or suspected of the same before. For those who do not have relatives who have Gaucher, difficulty in diagnosis may arise because of the variety of symptoms that one person may or may not manifest.
19526	Gelineau disease is easily diagnosed when all symptoms are present. In the absence of all the symptoms, sleep specialists perform either a polysomnogram or a multiple sleep latency test.
19527	Gender identity disorder can be diagnosed via careful monitoring of one's behaviors, as well as detecting chemical and hormonal imbalances by the use of medical procedures.
19528	The following critera must be met: Excessive anxiety and worry every day for at least six months; difficulty managing anxiety; anxiety that is linked with several specific symptoms, such as feeling keyed up, difficulty concentrating, muscle tension and sleep disturbances; and anxiety that causes significant distress or impairment in daily life.
19529	The study of genetic diseases is usually undertaken under the specific field of population genetics. The diagnosis of genetic diseases is under the purview of geneticists, with genetic counsellors directly assisting physicians and patients once diagnosis of such diseases has been confirmed. Some genetic disorders are caused by a single gene that underwent mutation, and may be passed on to later generations. Other more complex disorders may be polygenic, which means that the disorder is likely a result of the confluence of multiple genes. Examples of polygenic genetic disorders include diabetes.
19530	The doctor usually can diagnose herpes by taking a tissue scraping or culture of the blisters or early ulcers for examination in the laboratory. A blood test can also be administered to detect a herpes infection.
19531	Diagnosis is done by laboratory testings of the tumors.
19532	Genital warts (condylomata) should not be confused with Molluscum contagiosum (MC), which is often transmitted sexually, but does not occur internally as do condylomata. MC are like small warts, which are much smaller than condylomata genital warts. It does not expand the risk of cervical cancer for women.
19536	Tests that may be done to check for GERD include X-rays requiring barium swallows and pH monitoring of the esophageal region for 24 hours. Endoscopy can also be done to look at the surface of the esophageal lining.
19537	The disease can be diagnosed by physical examination and studying the symptoms shown by the patient.
19538	The presence of these antibodies along with, or a short time after, the particular rash confirms the diagnosis.
19539	The disease is confirmed by most doctors through laboratory tests which includes virus culture or blood tests.
19542	Symptoms may disappear for adults and it has also been projected for children. But there will be children that may not overcome this disorder and people should learn to adjust themselves to them.
19543	Genetic testing is used to determine the onset of the mutations. A person's family history is also studied.
19544	Since Gestational Diabetes Mellitus is a symptomatic illness, clinical assessment is needed for screening the glucose in plasma and serum. There is also a need for Urinary glucose testing as well as oral glucose tolerance test.
19545	Treatment for this disease is done by biopsy using immunoflourescence directly.
19547	This illness appears during the infancy or in their early childhood and they progress slowly as the more cells becomes involved.
19548	A person who is suspected with this kind of disease needs to have a physical exam, laboratory tests and biopsy.
19549	The diagnosis of CD is based upon a thorough clinical evaluation that includes a detailed patient history, laboratory studies, and a variety of imaging techniques.
19551	Diagnostic procedures for this illness include the platelet function tests and blood serum examination to measure glycoproteins that help induce blood clotting.
19552	To help diagnose giardiasis, the doctor is likely to test a sample of stool. For accuracy, the patient may be asked to submit several samples collected over a period of days.
19553	The disease can be diagnosed by urine tests and laboratory examinations. People living under poor sanitary conditions are most likely to contract the disease.
19554	The most effective and popular method of diagnosing giardiasis is through stool microscopy. Another method is the entero-test, which makes use of a gel capsule attached to a thread. Recently, a very effective method called the enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay, or ELISA, was found have a 90% accuracy rate in detection.
19555	Diagnosis of gigantism is quite difficult to do in children, because rapid growth is not necessarily seen as abnormal. For adults however, doctors usually study several serial photographs of the patient as he was growing up. To confirm this, skull x-rays and blood tests are conducted. The blood tests determine the amount of growth hormones and the insulin-like growth factor 1.
19556	Gilbert's syndrome is generally harmless; some believe that it is just a variation of bilirubin levels. However, the importance of its diagnosis is in separating it from being confused with liver diseases that may be much more dangerous. Diagnosis is often done through hemolysis; and in rare cases, liver biopsy.
19557	Due to the wide spectrum of severity, no screening or medical tests are used to diagnose Gilles de la Tourette's syndrome. Instead, the disorder may be diagnosed when a patient possesses both the vocal and motor tic, and the time interval without tics not lasting for more than 3 months in a period of a year.
19558	Dentists can diagnose gingivitis by examining symptoms as well as the amount of plaque in the mouth.
19559	No special tests are needed to diagnose gingivostomatitis. Biopsy however, is sometimes performed to rule out other mouth ulcers.
19560	A number of medical examinations can diagnose Gitelman syndrome. These are urinalysis, CBC, testing of 24-hour urine potassium, 24-hour urine aldosterone, serial electrolytes, plasma cortisol, plasma rennin, and a chemistry panel. A nephrology and endocrinology consultation is also essential in the diagnosis procedure.
19561	Laboratory examination to determine potassium levels and aldosteron levels are used to confirm the absence or presence of the medical condition.
19562	Polymerase chain reaction to detect the agents of glanders Seriology testing
19563	The disease can be diagnosed via blood serum tests. The lymph nodes are also checked as well as the liver and spleen for mild abnormalities and slight enlargement.
19564	Prenatal diagnosis may be done at 18 weeks old by means of a fetal blood sample, although this type of diagnosing may present a high risk of hemorrhage and may possible be deadly to the fetus. For fetuses that are unaffected, there is no risk involved in sampling.
19565	Screening for glaucoma usually performed as part of a standard eye examination performed by ophthalmologists and optometrists. If there is any suspicion of damage to the optic nerve, a formal visual field test should be performing. Scanning laser ophthalmoscopy may also be performed.
19566	Certain tests and procedures that help doctors diagnose the condition consists of CT scans, EEG, examination of the cerebral spinal fluid, examining the tissue obtained from the tumor during surgery, and MRI of the head.
19567	Early phases of glioblastoma multiforme may be diagnosed as a benign brain lesion. But craniotomy and stereotactic biopsy can confirm suspicions of the condition and also aid in removing as much of the tumor as possible.
19568	A physical examination is the first step towards diagnosing a glioma. If the doctor suspects a brain tumor, the patient is referred to a neurologist who then conducts neurological exams to determine the health of the brain and spinal cord. Other tests used in diagnosing gliomas include chest x-ray, blood test, CT or CAT scan, EEG, tissue sampling from the tumor, and MRI.
19569	A number of medical procedures are done to diagnose gliomatosis cerebri, including MRI and CT scans, and a physical examination. A tissue sample from the cancer is also tested through a biopsy, because determining the condition is very difficult in itself.
19570	Its diagnosis is based on biphasic tissue pattern that is composed of gliomatous and mesenchymal differentiation.
19571	The disease can be diagnosed via urinalysis and biopsy.
19572	The symptoms develop over time, and the disease is usually diagnosed after one undergoes a routine physical examination, revealing an abnormal urinalysis. Also because it is related to high blood pressure, it may be diagnosed when doctors determine that the high blood pressure is hard to control even with medications. Other laboratory tests that may reveal anemia or azotemia can also help in the diagnosis. Other exams include kidney biopsy, abnormal CT scan, IVP, and chest x-ray.
19573	Because the scarring in the glomeruli alter the functioning of the kidneys in filtering waste, a large amount of protein presents itself in the urine, called proteinuria. This condition is diagnosed through a routine urinalysis during a physical examination. However, glomerulosclerosis is only one of many possible causes of proteinuria, and to cross out the others a kidney biopsy may be conducted.
19574	Glossitis doesn't have to undergo serious laboratory tests rather than checking for the cause of the disease.
19575	The patient's dentist will inquire about the condition. He will need to know its location, the severity and duration of the glossodynia. He will also perform a check up to see if there are any irritants present in the mouth cavity, which may include broken crowns or teeth, dentures and other possible appliances, and thrush. If there are persistent locations with burning sensation caused by mouth sores, a biopsy should be conducted in order to rule out cancer.
19577	Blood tests are significant in diagnosing glucagonoma. If they show abnormally low concentrations of essential fatty acids, zinc, and amino acids, this means the patient has glucagonoma. A blood serum glucagon count of at least 1000 pg/ml is also equivalent to a glucagonoma diagnosis. Certain procedures may aid in localizing the tumor, including CT, angiography, PET, MRI, as well as an endoscopic ultrasound.
19578	The doctor will administer a physical exam. The patient may show signs of liver and spleen swelling, bone changes, lung disease, eye movement problems, heart problems, or hearing loss. The following tests may be performed: blood test to look for enzyme activity, bone marrow aspiration, biosy of the spleen, MRI, CT, X-ray of the skeleton, and genetic testing.
19579	When persons from the prone ethnic origins develop jaundice, anemia, and other signs of hemolysis, tests will be done including TSH measurement, liver enzymes, haptoglobin, CBC, and reticulocyte count.
19580	The symptoms of glucose-galactose malabsorption is usually noticed early on in an infant's life. Infants suffering from the disease exhibit a severe form of dehydration which may prove fatal, weight loss after being fed regular infant formulas or breast milk, and acidosis. Kidney stones may also be exhibited in patients as well as other calcium deposits throughout the body.
19581	There are not serious diagnostic tests required for glue ear.
19583	To confirm the diagnosis, the doctor may need to microscopically examine a small portion of intestinal tissue to check for damage to the villi.
19584	Diagnosing GSD requires these results on a laboratory exam: low blood sugar, growth problems, and abnormal blood test results. An enlarged liver is also a major diagnosis of GSD. Liver tissue sampling is also conducted to determine if enzymes are missing.
19585	If a patient exhibits the symptoms mentioned above, diagnosis of glycogen storage type 1B is suspected. If he shows additional symptoms such as hyperuricemia, enlarged kidneys, lactic acidosis, and hypertriglyceridemia, then the diagnosis for this disease strengthens. Monitored fasting is also another procedure in the diagnosis for GSD type 1B. If he is positive for the disease, he will develop hypoglycemia within 6 hours. To confirm this, a liver biopsy will be conducted accompanied by an electron microscopy.
19586	A liver biopsy is conducted to diagnose GSD type 7, and if positive a patient will show results with decreased or no glucose-6-phosphate activity although phosphorylase enzyme and glycogen synthetase activities remain normal. Spectroscopy may also be conducted to show presence of abnormal muscle activity.
19587	Diagnostic procedures include electromyography, muscle biopsy, ischemic forearm test, and creatine kinase levels. A patient's medical history must also be analyzed, and he must also have a physical examination. A biochemical assay will conclude the diagnostic findings.
19588	A blood test is conducted to determine the presence of creatine kinase. A muscle biopsy can be performed to confirm the diagnosis, and if positive the results will show no muscle phosphorylase and excessive glycogen levels.
19589	An enzyme assay and liver biopsy are standard in diagnosing this type of GSD. Histological examinations are also performed, as well as determination of glycogen.
19590	Lab tests are necessary to diagnose the disease. These are needed to determine elevated bilirubin, increased reticulocystosis, normal lactic acid levels following exercise, and increased serum creatine kinase levels. Brain imaging scans may also be performed to diagnose the condition in patients who have infantile onset of symptoms. The scan is needed to determine ventricular dilatation and cortical atrophy.
19591	Its diagnosis includes examination of family history and laboratory tests that may require blood and glucose in urine examinations.
19592	A hormone test is conducted to determine how much hormone are being produced by the pituitary and thyroid glands. If an overactive thyroid is the cause of goitre, it will result in high thyroid levels in the blood and a low TSH level. An antibody test is also conducted to confirm if abnormal antibodies are being produced. An ultrasonography and thyroid scan are also performed.
19593	The diagnosis is made only when an in individual presents the said symptoms.
19594	Golfer's elbow is usually diagnosed based on the medical history and a physical exam. To evaluate pain and stiffness, the doctor may apply pressure to the affected area or ask the patient to move the elbow, wrist and fingers in various ways.
19596	Diagnosis includesthe histological examinations of the gonads and thorough examination of the resected or biopsied gonadal tissue.
19597	It may be diagnosed b amnicentesis during pregnancy, genetic counseling and blood testing called karyotype which analyzes the chromosomal composition of the individual.
19598	Diagnosis includes examination of sex characteristics of the patient, checking of the karyotype and imaging of the pelvis and evaluation of delayed puberty.
19599	Clinical evaluation of delayed puberty, checking of kayotype and imaging of the pelvis are used to diagnose the medical condition (Ghosh, S. N.; Shah, P. M.; Gharpure, H. M.: Absence of H-Y antigen in XY females with dysgenetic gonads. Nature 276: 180-181, 1978).
19600	Laboratory examination of the discharge swabbed from the patient's eye is used to confirm the presence or absence of the medical condition.
19601	Diagnosis of gonorrhea, is sample for laboratory analysis of any discharge noted during a physical exam. The doctor may also test other STDs, such as chlamydia, syphilis and human immunodeficiency virus (HIV), the virus that causes AIDS. Other STDs mostly occur along with gonorrhea.
19602	Diagnosis of the Goodpasture's syndrome includes blood test and biopsy of the kidneys and the lunds (National Kidney and Urologic Diseases Information Clearinghouse, April 2007, pp. 2-4)
19603	Diagnosis may not occur until late in the disease due to vagueness of symptoms. Kidney biopsies are performed in order to conclude the diagnosis.
19604	The disease is usually discovered when one has abnormal pain in fractures or bones. Diagnosis is done through x-ray, scanner, biopsie, lymphography, and MRI.
19605	Gorlin syndrome can be diagnosed by genetic testing.
19606	Joint fluid test this may use a needle to draw fluid from your affected joint. Blood test is to measure the uric acid level in your blood.
19607	Diagnosis of GVHD is quite difficult as other diseases may occur after transplantation. The best way to diagnose is to consult a doctor knowledgeable in the disease after undergoing transplantation.
19608	The doctor will usually perform a neurological exam that tests reflexes, muscle tone, muscle strength, sensory function, gait, posture, coordination and balance. He or she may also ask questions to assess the person's thinking, judgment and memory.
19609	The doctor will need to know a person's medical history and symptoms prior to making a diagnosis. A physical exam is also mandatory before conducting other diagnostic procedures for the disease including urinalysis to determine any infectious agents, blood test for white blood cell count, genetic exam, and bone marrow tests.
19610	To rule out a fungal infection, the doctor may recommend a procedure called a KOH test. In this test, the doctor scrapes the patient's skin with a glass slide to collect dead skin cells. The skin cells are mixed with potassium hydroxide (KOH) and viewed under a microscope to aid in singling out a fungal infection.
19611	Diagnosis is done by observing the ulcers via a Wright-Giemsia stain test.
19612	Your doctor will probably want to perform a skin biopsy if the diagnosis of pyogenic granuloma is suspected.
19613	Diagnostic tests to confirm the disease includes a brain biopsy revealing the presence of pathogenic amoebas.
19614	The condition may be clinically diagnosed if the patient has exophthalmos in one or both eyes and non-pitting edema. Both symptoms are exclusive to Graves' disease. If a patient is showing others symptoms, diagnostic procedures can confirm the disease, such as a physical exam, blood test, and radioactive iodine intake.
19615	A differential diagnosis for gray platelet syndrome includes rare thrombocytopathies accompanied by large platelets. These include Bernard Soulier syndrome, Fechtner syndrome, DiGeorge syndrome, May-Heggin anomaly, and Epstein syndrome. Examinations analyzing bleeding time and alpha granule proteins are also conducted. Blood films and clotting screens are used. Immunological methods and Western blots are used to confirm the diagnosis.
19616	A stethoscope examination may pickup heart murmurs. Other tests may be conducted to confirm the diagnosis, including an ECG, chest x-ray, echocardiogram, and cardiac catheterization.
19617	The pregnant mother undergoes ultrasound to examine the fetus. A fetus with the condition shows hydrops fetalis, short limb dwarfism, polydactyly and chondro-osseous changes.
19618	Influenza is diagnosed by observation of the symptoms as well as community indexing during breakout of the disease.
19621	A medical history and physical exam play a key role in searching for the cause of urinary bleeding, as do urine tests. Even if the bleeding was first discovered through urinalysis, the patient is likely to have another test to see if the urine still contains red blood cells. Hematuria that occurs just once typically doesn't need further evaluation.
19622	GBS is determined through prenatal, neonatal and antenatal diagnostic tests.
19623	The mere appearance of red spots are usually enough to make a diagnosis, although sometimes a shave skin biopsy is required.
19624	One symptom that doctors find most helpful in making a diagnosis of growing pains is how the child responds to touch while experiencing pain. Children who have pain for a serious medical disease don't like to be handled because movement tends to worsen the pain. But children with growing pains respond differently, like they feel better when they're held, massaged, and cuddled.
19625	A consultation with an endocrinologist may often diagnose the constitutional growth delay immediately. An endocrinologist will take into account the family history of height as well as those of other family members to make his diagnosis. A bone age x-ray of the left hand and wrist may be conducted, although it is not necessary in all cases.
19626	For children, pediatric endocrinologists may conduct the diagnosis, while for adults, internist endocrinologists. Several exams and tests are needed to make the diagnosis, this includes auxologic criteria, response to GH treatment, indirect and direct hormonal criteria, and corroborative evidence of pituitary dysfunction.
19627	Diagnosis is based on regular weight and height measurement on standard growth curves.
19628	Diagnosis includes medical history and clinical examinations of neurological symptoms. (Almeida LS, Vilarinho L, Darmin PS, Rosenberg EH, Martinez-Munoz C, Jakobs C, Salomons GS. A prevalent pathogenic GAMT mutation in Portugal. Mol Genet Metab. 2007 May;91(1):1-6).
19630	To conclude a diagnosis for GBS, an individual must exhibit areflexia, rapid movement of muscle paralysis, and absence of fever. A CSF exam that shows elevated protein levels also confirm GBS. Electrodiagnostics procedures may also be conducted.
19631	Diagnosis is usually made by seeing the adult worm protruding from a skin sore.
19632	Until there is a clear definition of the disease, diagnosis is primarily an exercise in identifying those Gulf War veterans who have undefined illness in an effort to learn more about them and their symptoms.
19633	Diagnostic tests include facial X-rays and intravenous blood serum testing.
19634	It is recommended that a dental hygienist (dentist) be seen after the signs of gingivitis appear. A dental hygienist (dentist) will check for the symptoms of gingivitis, and may examine the amount of plaque in the oral cavity.
19636	Diagnosis includes physical manifestation of anxiety and fear when confronted to the idea of seeing other people naked.
19637	The condition is customary that can be diagnosed by examination by a physician. Sometimes, imaging by X-rays or ultrasound is needed to confirm the diagnosis.
19638	The doctor will use a noninvasive test to determine whether an H. pylori infection is present. If a test result is positive, the patient begin an antibiotic-based multiple-drug therapy to eradicate the bacteria.
19639	Blood agar growth Chocolate agar Serological testing Blood culture `
19639	Blood agar growth Chocolate agar Serological testing Blood culture
19640	It is usually diagnosed through clotting tests that are done through routine screening. Blood test is also used to measure the activity of factor XII wherein blood is drawn from a vein which is usually located in the inside of an elbow or the back of the hand (McPherson RA and Pincus MR, eds. Henry's Clinical Diagnosis and Management by Laboratory Methods. 21st ed. Philadelphia, Pa.: WB Saunders; 2006).
19642	To help diagnose trichotillomania, the doctor will ask questions about the hair-pulling habit, such as frequency, duration and amount of hair loss. The doctor may also check for other related medical problems, such as depression, anxiety or repetitive-strain injuries from repeated pulling.
19643	A suspicion of hairy cell leukemia will instigate doctors to probe an enlarged spleen, hairy cell leukemia cells in the blood, and decreased number of all blood cell types. Diagnostic procedures will consist of a physical exam, blood test, bone marrow biopsy, and CT scan.
19645	A physical examination is conducted to diagnose the condition. A dental check up may aid in the diagnosis.
19646	Diagnosis is through clinical and laboratory findings include endocrine function tests. Radiographic examination is also used.
19647	Scientists have long thought that smelling one's own breath odor is often difficult due to habituation, although many people with bad breath are able to detect it in others.
19648	Hallermann-Streff syndrome can be diagnosed by the studying the characteristic features exhibited by the patient.
19650	Hallucinations are diagnosed via monitoring one's behavior, therapy consultations and counseling.
19652	Hamburger disease is diagnosed by physical examination as well as fecal tests in search of E. coli bacteria.
19653	A doctor should be seen if there is foot pain that's persistent and that affects the ability to walk properly and carry out other motions with the foot. Also, see the doctor if one or more of the toes has developed a clenched or claw-like appearance.
19654	Doctors take into account the individual's age, appearance of sores or rashes, and pattern of the symptoms. A stool specimen and a throat swab may be taken for laboratory analysis for determining the type of virus that caused the infection.
19655	Doctors will typically observe the symptoms during the child's growth, as well as conduct evaluations of the child's neurological and physical activity. A recently developed genetic test is able to confirm the clinical diagnosis of those with suspected Rett syndrome.
19657	Diagnosis includes medical and laboratory examinations including clinical tests to determine the enzyme tyrosine amino transferase in the body.
19658	Diagnosis can be done though physical examination of the symptoms as well as tests for presence of the bacteria in the body.
19659	Doctors conduct a complete medical assessment in order to diagnose hantavirosis. This includes an assessment of medical history, laboratory data, and physical examination. Medical history must include the affected person's age, sex, occupation, place of work, exposure to illness, any recent medications including antibiotics, and date of disease onset. Information regarding symptoms is included, such as gradual or sudden occurrence, duration, relief measures, weight loss or gain, and precipitating factors. Recent hospitalization, blood transfusion, recent camping trips or travel, vaccinations, and exposure to animals is also taken into consideration. Drug abuse and sexually transmitted disease 'are factored in as well.
19660	Diagnosis may include laboratory tests and screening like CBC, platelets counts, x-ray of the chest and serological testing (Kruger DH, Ulrich R, Lundkvist A (2001) "Hantavirus infections and their prevention", Microbes And Infection 3 (13): 1129-1144).
19661	Laboratory examinations presenting elevated creatine kinase levels, altered dystroglycan, and myopathic/dystrophic muscle pathology are needed for diagnosis.
19662	The condition may be diagnosed in the uterus through a morphologic analysis of amniotic fluid or fetal skin biopsy. Ultrasound and 3D ultrasound are also other methods of prenatal diagnosis.
19663	Examination of medical history and unfounded fear as well as the assessment of reactions are used to confirm the presence or absence of the sickness.s
19664	Doctors must take a detailed diet history and assess if the sufferer received adequate vitamins and proteins in his diet. A urinalysis can confirm the diagnosis if results show an abnormally high level of amino acids. Once identified and treated, patients can live a long and healthy life.
19665	A physician will assess the symptoms usually present in hyperthyroidism, do a neck examination, and get and analyze the history of family members. Blood tests are usually done in diagnosing the condition, as results of low thyroid hormone and high thyroid stimulating hormone is conclusive of Hashimoto's thyroiditis.
19666	The doctor will perform physical tests such as skin prick test and allergy blood test.
19667	Diagnosis includes evaluation of the symptoms.
19668	The cancers can be diagnosed by ECG, X-rays and medical examinations on the neck.
19669	Diagnostic tests for head cancers include observation of the above symptoms, as well as needle biopsy.
19670	The presence of head lice is indicated by repeated itching of the scalp, or by detecting them in one's hair.
19675	The doctor may recommend an MRI of the brain to determine if there are any structural problems that may be causing the cough headaches.
19676	The doctor will probably do a physical exam to check for signs of illness, infection or neurological problems. If the cause of the headaches remains uncertain, blood or urine tests may be needed to identify any underlying medical conditions. Sometimes imaging studies - such as an X-ray, computerized tomography or magnetic resonance imaging - are needed.
19677	Brain scans, angiograms, and spinal taps may be administered to diagnose sex headaches.
19678	To diagnose a sinus headache, a doctor will check the patient's medical history and do a physical exam. If sinusitis is suspected, the doctor may confirm diagnosis using an x-ray or a CT scan.
19679	Occasinally, the doctor will recommend a magnetic resonance imagining (MRI) exam to exclude other causes of the headache. During the exam, a magnetic field and radio waves are used to create cross-sectional images of the structures within the brain.
19680	The doctor can learn a lot about the headaches from descriptions of the type of pain, including its severity, location, frequency and duration, and other signs and symptoms the patient may have.
19681	CT scans, spinal tap, MRI, and angiography are helpful in determinig the underlying condition that's causing the thunderclap headaches.`
19682	Headaches in children are diagnosed based on the symptoms they show.
19683	An audiologist will perform a hearing assessment, as well as a comprehensive interview. An otologist, or ear doctor, will do a medical examination and run a battery of tests depending on the patient's needs to make the diagnosis.
19685	Diagnosis includes medical examination of the ear and the use of Hearing in Noise Test or HINT.
19686	Passive heat monitoring tests such as electrocardiogram, holter monitor, event monitor, and echocardiogram can be done to monitor the heart.
19687	The tests the doctors order will help determine whether your signs and symptoms, such as chest pain, signal a heart attack or another condition. These tests include electrocardiogram and blood tests.
19688	Heart babies can be diagnosed via ultrasound procedures while in the womb of the mother, as well as ECG to detect the presence of heart problems.
19689	.
19690	To diagnose heart failure, the doctor will take a careful medical history and perform a physical examination.
19691	Doctors use a stethoscope to listen to heart sounds and hear murmurs. They usually notice innocent heart murmurs during routine checkups or physical exams.
19692	It is shown through the use of electrocardiogram (Solis-Cohen, S., Eshner A.A. 1900, Essential Diagnosis, p.125).
19693	Ambulatory pH Monitoring which can be placed via the nose into the esophagus to record the level of acidity in the lower esophagus. Biopsy which is a small sample of tissue from the esophagus is removed. It is then studied and observed to check for inflammation, cancer, or other problems.
19694	Heat cramps can be diagnosed during the onset of the symptoms or when one is currently suffering from heatstroke.
19695	A chest radiography may be useful in excluding differential diagnosis. A CT scan is also important in excluding a differential diagnosis in patients with altered level of consciousness.
19696	As the bumps burst and sweat is released, you may feel the prickly, or stinging, sensation that gives this condition its common name.
19697	Heat stroke may come on suddenly, but usually follows a less-threatening condition commonly referred to as heat exhaustion or heat prostration. After effects may be sensitivity to heat.
19698	It may be diagnosed through blood and urine tests, hair and tissue analysis and x-rays. Examination also of medical history of the patient is done.
19699	X-ray tests are used to diagnose presence of heel spurs.
19700	Diagnosis of infection is usually made by checking for dyspeptic symptoms and then doing tests which can suggest Helicobacter pylori infection. One can test noninvasively for Helicobacter pylori infection with a blood antibody test, stool antigen test, or with the carbon urea breath test (in which the patient drinks C- or C-labeled urea, which the bacterium metabolizes producing labeled carbon dioxide that can be detected in the breath).
19701	It is diagnosed through examination of medical conditions and the reaction of the person to his unfounded fear of the sun.
19702	A formal and comprehensive evaluation is performed by a team of doctors and health care specialists that often includes a child psychologist, a child psychiatrist, a doctor who specializes in conditions of the brain and nervous system (neurologist), a pediatrician specializing in behavioral and developmental problems, a hearing specialist (audiologist), a speech therapist, a physical therapist and an occupational therapist.
19703	For patients with suspicion of HELLP syndrome, a variety of blood tests aid in diagnosis. This includes liver enzymes, full blood count, coagulation and electrolyte studies, and renal functioning. A D-timer test may be able to determine who among pre-eclampsia patients will contract HELLP syndrome.
19704	Confirmation of the medical condition includes the use of endoscopy.
19706	Doctors will probe into a patient's medical history as well as physical examination for the first step in the diagnosis. This is followed by a brain scan through a CT or MRI scan. An angiogram, or x-ray of blood vessels, will also be conducted.
19707	Diagnosis is made based on the growth patterns of the tumors. Imaging scans are done to confirm the diagnosis, this includes a sonograph as well as a histological findings.
19708	Hepatic angiograms or special imaging studies are used to conclude a diagnosis of hemangioma.
19709	Signs and symptoms of the condition direct the diagnostic workup. This usually includes clotting studies, blood counts, laboratory tests, imaging tests (CT scan, MRI, ultrasound, angiography, and in rare cases, nuclear medicine scans), and biopsy of the tumor.
19710	Gross hematuria can be diagnosed based on visible signs; while microscopic hematuria is often discovered through urinalysis. More diagnostic steps will be taken to determine the underlying cause. Usually, imaging tests such as cystoscopy and CT scan are used.
19711	Hemianopia can be diagnosed by vision tests and optometric examinations.
19713	Hemifacial spasms are diagnosed via CT scan.
19714	The disease is diagnosed by X-rays, ultrasound examinations and clinical examinations. Genetic counseling can also be performed to detect the onset of the disease.
19715	Diagnosis includes cross-sectional imaging, CT Scan and MR imaging are used to diagnose the medical condition (Barkovich AJ, Chuang SH. Unilateral megalencephaly: correlation of MR imaging and pathologic characteristics. AJNR Am J Neuroradiol 1990; 11:523-531).
19716	The medical condition may be diagnosed through examination of medical history and physical examination of the patient. It may also de confirm through blood tests, cranial CT Scan and Crannial MRI, and through Electrocephalogram or EEG.
19718	Diagnosis may be difficult for patients of hemmorhagic fever, because all sufferers present the same symptoms: headache, muscle ache, fever, and extreme fatigue. Additionally, these symptoms are present in a number of diseases as well. Doctors may need to inquire into a patient's recent travels, including any possible encounters with mosquitoes and rodents that may have passed on the virus. Laboratory exams are also conducted to check blood samples.
19719	Early diagnosis is important due to the late effects of iron accumulation can be wholly prevented by periodic phlebotomies (by venesection) comparable in volume to blood donations.
19720	Hemoglobinopathy Screening is used to confirm the presence or absence of the medical condition (Schmidt, R.M., and Brosious, E.M. 1976. Basic Laboratory Methods of Hemoglobinopathy Detection.)
19721	Tests to determine white and red blood cell count are conducted. Diagnosis for hemoglobinuria would reveal low results for both counts. Other diagnostic procedures include urinalysis, complete blood count (CBC), Ham's (acid hemolysin) test, Coombes' tests, flow cytometry (for measurement of certain proteins), sucrose hemolysis test, and serum hemoglobin and haptoglobin. Early diagnosis and treatment is crucial to prevent hemoglobinuria in leading to acute tubular necrosis, a common cause of death.
19723	The disease can be diagnosed by direct Coombs test, peripheral blood morphology and indirect Coombs test on the mother.
19724	Different laboratory testings are done to diagnose HUS due to its similarities to thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura (TTP). In TTP however, neurological symptoms are present.
19725	Physical exams will reveal an enlarged spleen or liver. The nervous system may be also affected, producing abnormal results neurological exams. Other diagnostic procedures include complete blood count (CBC), blood chemistry exam, urinalysis, kidney biopsy, and stool culture.
19726	Diagnostic procedures needed to examine for abnormal or excessive immune cells includes bone x-ray, biopsy of the affected tissue (bone marrow, bone, lymph node, skin, and/or liver), urinalysis, CT or MRI scan, blood samples, and genetic tests.
19727	Patients with hemophilia are diagnosed via blood test and genetic counseling.
19728	Coagulation testing of partial thromboplastin time (PTT) testing as well as bleeding time. An examination of family history and genetic testing may also be conducted.
19729	Patients are interviewed regarding the intensity of their fear in relation to certain circumstances. They are also asked whether their reactions have disrupted their normal life.
19730	Hemorrhage can easily be diagnosed during the onset of an incident or disease that caused it. It is important to diagnose hemorrhage easily in order to maintain a steady blood flow in the body systems.
19731	Physicians must be aware of the patient's medical history particularly about bleeding and bleeding illness in the family. The patient undergoes a physical exam and laboratory tests, and examined for signs of bleeding. The disorder is usually confirmed in a specialist laboratory with a specialization in this illness.
19732	Perianal hematoma are sometimes misdiagnosed and mislabeled as hemorrhoids, when in fact they have different causes and treatments.
19733	An examination of decreased or absent breath sounds on the affected region is required to make a diagnosis. Additional laboratory tests may be conducted such as pleural fluid analysis, chest x-ray, and thoracentesis.
19734	Laboratory testings are done detect hendra virus. Among these tests include ELISA (IgM and IgG), virus isolation and real time polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR).
19735	HSP is often diagnosed based on the typical skin, joint, and kidney findings. Throat culture, urinalysis, blood tests for inflammation and kidney function are used to arrive at the diagnosis. Biopsy of skin, and less often kidneys, can be used to demonstrate vasculitis.
19736	Diagnosis of HIT includes a full blood picture. Patients positive for the condition would show results of a 50 percent or more decrease in platelet count, combined with typical symptoms of HIT.
19737	Doctors will probe into a patient's medical history and conduct a physical examination to make a diagnosis. A mental status exam will also be conducted as well as blood tests to evaluate the ammonia level.
19738	Hepatic hemangiomas can be diagnosed by CT scan, ultrasound or MRI.
19740	Viral hepatitis conditions can be diagnosed and followed through the use of readily available blood tests.
19741	These viral hepatitis conditions can be diagnosed and followed through the use of readily available blood tests.
19742	These viral hepatitis conditions can be diagnosed and followed through the use of readily available blood tests.
19743	These viral hepatitis conditions can be diagnosed and followed through the use of readily available blood tests.
19744	These viral hepatitis conditions can be diagnosed and followed through the use of readily available blood tests.
19745	Hepatitis E is diagnosed during an outbreak. One can be identified with the virus during physical and medical examinations. Strains of the virus can also be found in one's infected blood sample.
19746	These viral hepatitis conditions can be diagnosed and followed through the use of readily available blood tests.
19747	These viral hepatitis conditions can be diagnosed and followed through the use of readily available blood tests.
19748	Diagnosis is usually made through a physical exam along with a patient history to identify any possible hepatotoxins. Blood tests are typically done as well. An increased in white blood cell count is typical.
19749	This kind of hepatitis is often left undiagnosed due to the difficulty in finding the presence of the virus. Hepatitis X can only found via a double-blood test. Hepatitis X often makes the patient sterile.
19750	Blood tests are done and may aid in establishing the diagnosis, identifying the cause, and determining the severity of liver damage. However, a liver biopsy is essential for a definite diagnosis.
19751	To diagnose toxic hepatitis, the doctor will likely perform a physical exam and take a complete medical history.
19752	Hepatoblastoma is diagnosed through biopsy, complete blood count, additional blood tests, multiply imaging studies, computed tomography scans, magnetic resonance imaging, x-ray, ultrasound, bone scans, and alpha-feto-protein test.
19753	Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is most commonly found in a patient with chronic viral hepatitis or with cirrhosis. These patients typically undergo surveillance with ultrasound due to the cost-effectiveness.
19754	Hepatocerebral degeneration can be diagnosed by the presence of the symptoms, as well as CT scan, MRI and EEG tests.
19756	Hepatoma can be diagnosed via the symptoms it shows, as well as through laboratory testings such as CT scans, MRI and ultrasound. Liver biopsy is also conducted.
19757	After a thorough medical history and physical examination of the patient, blood tests should be drawn. An important series of blood tests are the liver function tests, which give a good impression of the patient's broad metabolic standing. An ultrasound of the liver can reliably detect a dilated biliary duct system, which helps differentiate parenchymal liver disease from extrahepatic bile duct obstruction. Ultrasound can also detect the characteristic texture of a cirrhotic liver, and can help fine needle aspiration of cysts, abscesses and tumours. Computed tomography (CT) can be helpful in obtaining more accurate anatomical information, and is unaffected by the obesity or the presence of bowel gases.
19758	The major criteria include liver disease in the setting of portal hypertension; renal failure; the absence of shock, infection, recent treatment with medications that affect the kidney's function, and fluid losses, among others.
19759	A definite diagnosis is done through a tissue sample (biopsy) from the liver, kidney, skin, gums, or rectum. A bone marrow biopsy may also be performed for the patient. Other laboratory and imaging tests can confirm the exact organ or system that is affected by the disease. The affected organs are oftentimes enlarged, and feel rubbery and firm.
19760	The diagnosis is done on the clinical picture. Routine blood tests (such as complete blood count, electrolytes, renal function, liver enzymes) are usually performed. Mast cell tryptase levels may be heightened if the attack was due to an acute allergic (anaphylactic) reaction.
19761	Differential diagnosis of hereditary ataxia includes acquired, non-genetic causes of ataxia (such as alcoholism, multiple sclerosis, vitamin deficiencies, vascular disease, primary or metastatic tumors) or paraneoplastic diseases associated with occult carcinoma of the ovary, breast, or lung. The probability of an acquired cause of ataxia needs to be considered in each individual with ataxia because a specific treatment may be available.
19762	Because vision loss is usually an early sign, Batten disease may be first suspected during an eye exam. An eye doctor can detect a loss of cells within the eye that arises in the three childhood forms of NCL. However, because such cell loss arises in other eye diseases, the disorder cannot be diagnosed by this sign alone. An eye specialist or other physician who suspects NCL may refer the patient to a neurologist.
19763	Physicians establish the diagnosis of coproporphyria by demonstrating excess secretion of coproporphyrins in the feces.
19764	Genetic forms of hearing loss should be distinguished from acquired (or non-genetic) causes of hearing loss. The genetic forms of hearing loss are diagnosed by audiologic, otologic, and physical examination, family history, ancillary testing (such as CT examination of the temporal bone), and molecular genetic testing. Molecular genetic tests are available for several types of syndromic and nonsyndromic deafness, often only on a research basis.
19766	The following tests may help diagnose the condition: CBC may show anemia or cell destruction; a smear of the blood may show elliptical red blood cells; bilirubin may be high; LDH may be high; and/or cholecystogram (x-ray of gallbladder) may show gallstones.
19767	Tests that confirm the diagnosis include blood clotting tests, blood sugar test, enzyme studies, genetic testing, urinalysis, uric acid blood test, liver biopsy, and kidney function tests.
19768	Hemochromatosis can be hard to diagnose in the early stages. Initial signs may mirror other diseases. Diabetes, stiff joints, and fatigue, for example, are common in hemochromatosis and other maladies.
19769	When HHT is suspected, physical examination concentrates on inspecting the whole skin for teleangiectasias, auscultation of the lungs and liver, and neurological examination.
19770	Polychromatophilia and basophilic stippling are known to occur in lead intoxication and P-5'-N deficiency. Serum and urine levels are not increased. An autohemolysis test may show an increase in hemolysis corrected by glucose which confirms defects inherent to RBCs. In the absence of lead poisoning, this may lead to a correct diagnosis of P-5'-N deficiency.
19771	Aside from asking about a person's medical history and doing a physical exam, a doctor will order a blood test to diagnose acute pancreatitis. During acute attacks, the blood contains at least three times more amylase and lipase than the usual amount. Amylase and lipase are digestive enzymes produced in the pancreas. Changes may also arise in blood levels of glucose, calcium, magnesium, sodium, potassium, and bicarbonate. After the pancreas improves, these levels usually go back to normal.
19772	Hereditary sensory motor neuropathy can be diagnosed by neurological examination, nerve condition studies and EMG. Genetic testing is also conducted to determine the cause of the disease.
19773	Diagnosis is done primarily by neurological examination and testing to exclude other disorders. Specialized genetic testing focused towards known genetic mutations are available at certain specialized centers. A wide variety of mutations have been detected in various genes, however mutations in the spastin and atlastin genes account for most of the identified mutations in "uncomplicated" forms of HSP.
19774	In a peripheral blood smear, the abnormally small red blood cells lacking the central pallor as seen in non-hereditary spherocytosis is typically more prominent in hereditary spherocytosis. Other protein deficiencies result to hereditary elliptocytosis, pyropoikilocytosis or stomatocytosis.
19775	Heritable disorders of connective tissue are detected via genetic testing.
19776	The usual tests which physicians use to diagnose coagulation (clotting) problems typically will show normal results in HPS. These tests which may be normal include the partial thromboplastin time (PTT), prothrombin time (PT), and platelet count. A bleeding time test is typically prolonged but may be normal.
19777	The following may be done to diagnose hermaphroditism: Chromosome analysis; hormone levels (for example, testosterone level); hormone stimulation tests; electrolyte tests; specific molecular testing; endoscopic examination (to verify the absence or presence of a vagina or cervix); and ultrasound or MRI to evaluate whether internal sex organs are present (for example, a uterus).
19778	Most people discover their own hernias, although sometimes your doctor will find a hernia as part of a routine examination.
19779	Hernias can be diagnosed based on the symptoms given by the patient.
19780	The diagnosis of inguinal hernia rests on the history provided by the patient and the physician's examination of the groin. Further tests are seldom needed to confirm the diagnosis. However, in unclear cases an ultrasound scan or a CT scan might be of help, particularly to rule out a hydrocele.
19781	An umbilical hernia is diagnosed using a physical exam. Sometimes blood tests or imaging studies - such as an abdominal ultrasound or X-ray - are performed to screen for complications.
19782	Your doctor may diagnose a herniated disc by asking questions about your symptoms and examining you. If the symptoms clearly point to a herniated disc, you may not need tests.
19783	The diagnosis is usually made based on the history and physical exam. Because the syndrome is so specific, the diagnosis can be quite obvious.
19784	Primary orofacial herpes is readily identified by clinical examination in persons without a previous history of lesions, and with reported contact with an individual with known HSV-1 infection. The appearance and distribution of sores, in these individuals, typically presents as multiple, round, superficial oral ulcers, and also accompanied by acute gingivitis.
19785	The disease can be diagnosed by clinical skin biopsy.
19786	The disease is diagnosed by optometric and ophthalmologic examinations. Blood serum tests are also administered in search of the virus.
19787	Isolation of herpes simplex virus (HSV) from brain tissue after biopsy has been known to be the reference standard for the diagnosis of herpes simplex encephalitis (HSE).
19788	Most hospitals perform an EEG (an electro-encephalogram to monitor the brains electrical activity), plus brain imaging by a CT scan ( computerised tomography), or, for a clearer picture, an MRI (magnetic resonance imaging). These procedures, combined with careful and continuous clinical assessment provide data which may be suggestive of HSE and, importantly, may exclude other conditions. However the diagnostic procedure now more widely-accepted as providing an aetiological diagnosis of HSE is the polymerase chain reaction (PCR). This has been developed using the methods of modern molecular biology.
19789	By taking a tissue scraping or culture of the blisters or early ulcers for examination in the laboratory, your doctor can usually diagnose herpes. The infection can also be detected through a blood test.
19790	Basing on the culture of the lesion and of the appearance, diagnosis is made by your doctor and further examinations may also show enlargement of lymph node in the groin or neck.
19793	Laboratory tests are available to diagnose the presence of herpes zoster. The most common test detects VZV-specific IgM antibody in blood.
19794	If there is any question about viral etiology, vesicular scrapings may be collected for direct immunofluorescence or for viral cultures, and MRI is done for the patient.
19795	Epithelial scrapings with Giemsa stain may show multinucleated giant cells, a a result of the coalescence of infected corneal epithelial cells and intranuclear viral inclusions. However, negative cytology findings do not exclude HSV infection.
19798	Newborn screening of dried blood spots using tandem mass spectrometry (MS/MS) is capable of identifying Ornithine. HHH Syndrome patients have elevated Ornithine levels of five to ten times the normal amount. Alanine may be heightened. Hyperammonemia arises postprandially and is chronically elevated on a high protein diet, but may be normal when fasting.
19799	The diagnosis of a hiatus hernia is typically made through an upper GI series or endoscopy.
19800	For hiccups lasting longer than 48 hours, the following may be done: blood tests, chest x-ray, ear exam, and fluoroscopy.
19801	To make a diagnosis, the doctor may ask about symptoms and medical history, examine the skin, and order blood tests. If pus or drainage is present, the doctor may send a sample of the fluid to a laboratory for testing. This is known as a culture.
19802	The sickness can be diagnosed via the symptoms one exhibits during his travel to higher altitudes.
19803	The sickness is diagnosed through the symptoms the patient exhibits while traveling to higher elevations.
19804	When measuring cholesterol, it is important to measure its subfractions before drawing a conclusion on the cause of the problem. The subfractions are LDL, HDL and VLDL LDL and VLDL levels were not usually measured directly due to cost concerns. VLDL levels are reflected in the levels of triglycerides (generally about 45% of triglycerides is composed of VLDL).
19805	A new procedure can now be utilized as a screening test to check for hip dysplasia in the newborn, using an Ultrasound machine. This is in many ways better than an X-ray examination, which results to radiation and is notorious for being inaccurate for hip dysplasia.
19806	A diagnosis will be based on physical examination as well as imaging tests such as MRI to further assess the extent of the damage.
19807	Abdominal X-ray may be used to screen for Hirschsprung's. If Hirschsprung's is present, as stool backs up in the colon, the X-ray may reveal reduced air in the colon or areas in which the colon has stretched wider than normal.
19808	Hirsutism can be diagnosed using physical exam and blood tests.
19809	Histidenemia is marked by increased levels of histidine, histamine and imidazole in blood, urine and cerebrospinal fluid. This also results in reduced levels of the metabolite urocanic acid in blood, urine, and skin cells.
19810	Chest x-rays, pulmonary function tests, and bronchoscopy with biopsy showing typical abnormalities in histiocytes are used to diagnose the problem.
19811	Lavage may be needed for histiologic evaluation and to obtain cultures to make the diagnosis.
19812	The person's appearance, behavior, and history, and a psychological evaluation are usually enough to establish the diagnosis.
19813	The diagnosis will be based on physical examination as well as an interview on the possible trigger of the medical condition. Blood test and skin test can also be done.
19814	Hoarding isn't yet considered an official, distinct disorder, however, it can be diagnosed as a subtype or symptom of obsessive-compulsive disorder or obsessive-compulsive personality disorder.
19815	The most typical sign of laryngitis is hoarseness. Changes in the voice can vary with the degree of infection or irritation, ranging from mild hoarseness to almost total loss of the voice. The doctor may ask whether the patient smokes or has any health conditions - such as a cold or allergies - that may be causing vocal irritation.
19816	A tissue sample (biopsy) of an enlarged lymph node is necessary to make the diagnosis. The pathologist searches for changes in the normal lymph node architecture and cell characteristics, including the presence of Reed-Sternberg cells. The affected lymph nodes may have only a few of these malignant cells.
19817	Initial studies should include the following: serum electrolyte levels; blood ammonia levels; urinalysis; and culture samples appropraite for an evaluation for sepsis.
19818	MR imaging is an excellent tool for diagnosing congenital malformations of the brain. Such malformations cannot be reliably distinguished or classified without an insight into the basic processes of the fetal development of the brain.
19819	Holt-Oram syndrome is congenital, so diagnosis may be made based on hand and arm abnormalities. If the hand/arm abnormalities are subtle, the diagnosis may not be made until later on in life, when the heart symptoms of the disease become evident. X-rays can recognize bone abnormalities, and an electrocardiogram or echocardiogram can detect heart problems.
19820	During a physical examination of the child, the health care provider may take notice a tall, thin (Marfanoid) stature with deformity of the chest or scoliosis. If there is poor or double vision, an ophthalmologist should perform a dilated eye exam where dislocation of the lens of the eye or nearsightedness may be apparent.
19821	Diagnosis depends on finding characteristic worm eggs on microscopic examination of the stools, although this is not possible in early infection. As the eggs of both Ancylostoma and Necator are indistinguishable, to identify the genus, they must be cultured in the lab to allow larvae to hatch out.
19822	If the signs and symptoms of a sty persist or if there have been successive infections, the doctor may want to exclude other possible causes.
19824	Horner's syndrome may be diagnosed with the following: Cocaine drop test, paredrine test, and dilation lag test. It is important to differentiate the ptosis caused by Horner's syndrome from the ptosis caused by a lesion to the oculomotor nerve.
19825	Clinically, this congenital anomaly is diagnosed in individuals of all ages; horseshoe kidney is found prenatally, as well as in elderly people. Because of its association with other congenital anomalies, however, horseshoe kidney is more commonly diagnosed in children.
19826	The condition can be diagnosed through the symptoms the person feels during its onset.
19827	Simply by looking at your skin, your doctor may be able to diagnose folliculitis. Your doctor may send a sample taken from one of your pustules to a laboratory, where it's grown on a special medium (cultured) and then checked for the presence of bacteria, when stardard treatments fail to clear the infection.
19829	The doctor will diagnose warts or related lesions based on a visual inspection. In addition to a visual inspection of genital warts, the doctor also may apply a vinegar solution that usually turns HPV-infected genital areas white. This may aid in identifying difficult-to-see flat lesions. In most cases, there's no value in testing for the exact type of HPV infection that has caused visible warts or lesions because these HPV types don't lead to cancer.
19830	Herpes is best diagnosed by determining the virus in the laboratory with a swab test. This is a fairly simple test, and involves the doctor or sexual health nurse rubbing a suspicious area of skin with a swab (like a cotton bud). This method of diagnosis makes it possible to match up the virus with changes that are happening within the skin.
19831	The disease can be diagnosed by laboratory testing such as liquid phase coagulation assays and solid ELISA assays.
19833	Routine laboratory testing may show reduced white blood cell and platelet concentrations and mildly elevated hepatic transaminase activity in peripheral blood. A high index of suspicion is required to arrive at a timely clinical diagnosis.
19834	The doctor uses a special light called the Wood's light where in the lice eggs appear pale blue. Using s fine-toothed brush for stroking the hair to find lice eggs.
19835	HIV is diagnosed by testing the blood or oral mucus for the presence of antibodies to the virus.
19836	The doctor will diagnose warts or related lesions based on a visual inspection. In addition to a visual inspection of genital warts, the doctor also may apply a vinegar solution that usually turns HPV-infected genital areas white. This may aid in identifying difficult-to-see flat lesions. In most cases, there's no value in testing for the exact type of HPV infection that has caused visible warts or lesions because these HPV types don't lead to cancer.
19837	The diagnosis for human parvovirus B19 infection is done through serological tests for Human Parvovirus B19 antibodies.
19839	The doctor may ask the person to bend forward from the waist while he or she views the spine from the side. With kyphosis, the rounding of the upper back may become more apparent in this position. In postural kyphosis, the deformity corrects itself when the person lies on his back.
19840	Diagnosis is typically determined by observation of evidence of facial weakness and a vesicular rash. Occasionally, a nerve conduction study may be performed to determine the extent of damage to the facial nerve and potential for recovery.
19841	Confirmation of a diagnosis of Hunter syndrome needs tests performed on blood, urine or tissue samples.
19842	The doctor reviews the patient's medical and family history and conducts a physical examination. The patient may also be asked if he or she has any recent emotional or intellectual changes. The doctor may also suggest a computerized tomography or magnetic resonance imaging scan to check for any changes to the brain's structure. A blood test may also be suggested to determine if there is a defective gene.
19843	To determine whether initial symptoms are evident, a physical and/or psychological examination is needed. The uncontrollable movements are often the symptoms which cause initial alarm and lead to diagnosis; however, the disease may start with cognitive or emotional symptoms, which are not always recognized.
19844	Diagnosis can often be made through clinical examination and urine tests (excess mucopolysaccharides are excreted in the urine). Enzyme assays (testing a variety of cells or body fluids in culture for enzyme deficiency) are also utilized to provide definitive diagnosis of one of the mucopolysaccharidoses.
19845	Initial diagnostic steps include checking the patient's medical history as well as performing a physical exam to check for swollen lymph nodes in the neck. Blood tests may also be done to check if the thyroid gland still functions. A more definite diagnosis is made through an ultrasound scan or a fine-needle aspiration (FNA) biopsy of the affected area, along with standard imaging scans such as MRI, CT scan, and PET scan.
19846	Tooth abrasion may be done for a differential diagnosis.
19847	Diagnosis is suspected according to signs and symptoms, such as abnormal growth, skin changes, and loss of hair. Progeria can be confirmed through a genetic test.
19848	Blood Serology Casoni's reaction X-ray - abdomen USG and CT scan ERCO (Endoscopic retrograde Cholangio-Pancreatography)
19849	The diagnosis is strongly suggested by ultrasound (sonogram), but definitive diagnosis needs histopathological examination. The mole is grossly similar to a bunch of grapes ("cluster of grapes" or "honeycombed uterus" or "snow-storm"). There is a heightened trophoblast proliferation and enlargening of chorionic villi. The angiogenesis in the trophoblasts are not functioning as well.
19850	Cystic echinococcosis (CE) is one of the few parasitic infections in which the basis for laboratory diagnosis is basically serology.
19851	Diagnosis may be delayed for several months due to the early behavior appearing to be relatively normal. Some infants may have additional abnormalities at birth including myoclonus (spasm or twitching of a muscle or group of muscles), seizures, and respiratory problems
19852	Screening and diagnosis entails a physical exam, which may show an enlarged scrotum that isn't tender to the touch. Pressure to the abdomen or scrotum may grow or shrink the fluid-filled sac, which may indicate an associated inguinal hernia. Because the fluid in a hydrocele often is clear, the doctor may shine a light through the scrotum (transillumination). With a hydrocele, the light will outline the testicle, indicating that clear fluid envelops it.
19853	The doctor may diagnose congenital hydrocephalus in a peron's unborn child during a routine prenatal ultrasound, or the condition may be discovered during infancy or early childhood, when the head is regularly measured as part of growth monitoring. If the baby's head is visibly enlarged or its growth over time is more rapid than that of other infants, the doctor may recommend an ultrasound of the head. If the results of the ultrasound are abnormal, the infant will need further evaluation.
19854	Hydrocephalus can be diagnosed via CT scan and imaging studies done during the infant's first months of life.
19855	A doctor can confirm a diagnosis of hydronephrosis by: X-rays of the kidneys, such as dye studies (excretory urogram); computerized tomography (CT); ultrasound; magnetic resonance imaging (MRI); and cystoscopy and catheterization of the ureter with dye injection.
19857	Hydrops fetalis can be diagnosed and monitored using ultrasound scans.
19858	The illness can be diagnosed by MRI of the spine and other imaging procedures.
19859	The disease can be diagnosed by excreting a fluid in the affected joint and have it examined under a microscope to detect strains of hydroxyapatite crystals.
19860	Examination of the stool for eggs and parasites confirms the diagnosis for the disease. The eggs and proglottids of H nana are more small than H diminuta. Proglottids of both species are relatively wide and have three testes. Identifying the parasites to the species level is often not needed from a medical perspective, as the treatment is the same for both.
19861	HIES is diagnosed by genetic testing.
19862	Diagnosing the syndrome is through examination, history, and level of serum IgD. Other tests can be done to determine nonspecific abnormalities, and confirm diagnosis.
19863	Some psychiatric experts believe it's associate with obsessive-compulsive disorder, while others believe it's related to addiction and still others to impulse control disorders.
19864	A dexamethasone suppression test may be done to test for Cushing's. This entails administering dexamethasine, a type of glucocorticoid that simulates the effects of cortisol. A 24-hour urinary analysis for cortisol also produces more or less the same results. Of course, vigilant monitoring of cortisol and ACTH levels must be done. Very recently, the US FDA approved a new diagnostic approach where the cortisol is sampled in saliva over 24 hours. When any of these clinical tests turn out positive, the adrenal gland must undergo CT scanning. In addition, an MRI must be taken of the pituitary gland to determine any adrenal or pituitary adenomas.
19865	Hyperaldosteronism can be diagnosed through screen tests. If patients suspected of Hyperaldosteronism are in some form of medication for high blood pressure, it's imperative for physicians to order that these drugs be stopped for a duration prior to the tests. Blood and urine may be screened to check aldosterone and potassium levels as well as rennin activity. In addition, a CT scan may be done to detect any underlying tumors.
19866	Lab tests to determine plasma ammonia levels are often done when symptoms indicate hyperammonemia. Plasma amino acid level quantitation is also done if genetic causes are suspected. A urinary organic acid profile is used to determine metabolic deficiencies where hyperammonemia is a secondary result. This study can help determine levels in propionic acid, methylmalonic acid, isovaleric acid, or other organic acids. In addition, screening tests to determine urine amino acid levels, blood lactate levels, blood gas levels, BUN levels, and N-carbamoyl-L-glutamic acid in infants are also particularly helpful in diagnosis.
19867	A pelvic ultrasound is often done to determine hyperandrogenism. But because symptoms are widely diverse, diagnosis can prove very difficult. Other diagnostic tools include Gynecologic ultrasonography, Laparoscopic examination, screening for elevated serum levels of androgens, plus a variety of blood tests which may aid in diagnosis.
19868	Hyperbilirubinemia may be diagnosed through assessing direct and indirect bilirubin levels. This diagnostic approach often determines whether the substance is bound to other substances in the liver or circulating in the blood. A red blood cell count may also prove useful. Often, blood typing and testing for Rh incompatibility can provide some insight.
19870	The most obvious diagnostic tool to determine hypercholesterolemia is to test for cholesterol levels in the blood. In measuring, however, subfractions such as LDL, HDL, and VLDL need to be accurately determined to draw a reliable diagnostic conclusion. A method known as the Friedewald calculation [LDL ~= Total Cholesterol - HDL - (0.2 x Triglycerides)] is used to determine potentially harmful levels. Also, newer lab methods have been developed (including the "lipoprotein subclass analysis") that have presented significant progress in diagnosis. In addition, screening should also be done to determine the presence of hypercholesterolemia, especially in asymptomatic patients.
19871	Hyperchylomicronemia, by itself, does not manifest symptoms. Therefore, blood tests to determine lipid levels are needed for diagnosis. According to the National Cholesterol Education Program, individuals aged 20 years old and above are strongly encouraged to periodically get tested every 5 years. The results of the blood test will then be compared to established ranges of lipid levels. Such ranges will aid the physician in diagnosing the disorder and then recommend treatment.
19872	Cushing's can be sometimes difficult to diagnose. The doctor will conduct a physical exam, looking for signs of Cushing's syndrome. He or she may suspect Cushing's syndrome if the patient displays symptoms.
19873	The disorder is determined by testing the urine for suspected ketones, and serum electrolytes that are linked to hormone-induced vomiting.
19874	Several methods are used for diagnosing the syndrome; blood testing is one of the most essential. A variety of diagnostic and imaging technological methods are also used for detecting defects of the heart and some other organs. Chest radiographs and neurological tests can also be used.
19875	Diagnosis is generally clinical, however physical examination and history also help in confirming diagnosis. EMG may be used for monitoring therapy response and progress.
19876	The condition can be diagnosed through blood test and urine test, in addition to history and physical examination.
19877	The condition is observed through urinalysis and blood sugar count.
19878	Hyperglycinemia (nonketotic) may be diagnosed through diagnostic tests, physical examinations, and history.
19879	Obvious symptoms of sweating can be noted when visiting a doctor. Several tests can also be done to diagnose the condition, including starch-iodine test and paper tests. Physical examination and history is also done.
19880	Diagnosis is based on history, physical examination, and blood tests. Further diagnostic tests may be done to confirm diagnosis.
19882	Hyperkalemia is diagnosed mainly by blood tests; the concentration of potassium in blood is determined. If the doctor suspects Hyperkalemia, then ECG is often done.
19883	A family history of the disorder often leads to suspicion of HYPP. Other clinical cues are intermittent symptoms described by the patient. A potassium test may also reveal some helpful insights.
19884	The disease is diagnosed by measuring levels of plasma rennin and aldosterone levels in the blood. Failure to cure the disorder results to slow growth.
19885	Standard diagnostic criteria require impairment in social interaction, and repetitive and stereotyped behaviors and interests, without significant delay in language or cognitive development.
19887	The condition can be diagnosed based on the present medical condition experienced by the patient.
19888	The doctor will most likely ask about the patient's medical history and menstrual cycles. She may be asked to keep a diary of bleeding and nonbleeding days, including notes on how heavy her flow was and how much sanitary protection she needed to control it. The doctor will do a physical exam and may recommend one or more tests or procedures such as: blood tests, pap test, endmetrial biopsy, and ultrasound scan.
19889	The illness is diagnosed based on X-ray findings and physical examination of the patient.
19890	The condition can be diagnosed based on the symptoms given by the patient.
19891	Visual acuity is affected depending on the amount of hyperopia, as well as the patient's age, visual demands, and accommodative ability.
19892	Diagnosis include complete physical exam, including history. Tests are also done to confirm diagnosis.
19893	A PTH immunoassay is the gold standard in hyperparathyroidism diagnosis. If elevated PTH levels are confirmed, the next steps in diagnosis is screening for serum calcium levels. This is to determine if the origins of the condition are either primary or secondary.
19896	Proclatin blood levels are tested in women with abnormal milk secretions or altered menstrual cycles as well as in men with erectile dysfunctions and sexual difficulties, If proclatin levels are found to be abnormally elevated, a thyroid function test may be done. Often, MRI (magnetic resonance imaging) is also recommended to detect pituitary tumors. CT scans also provide a reliable image of the pituitary. These imaging tests are geared towards gauging the size of the tumor, identifying defects in surrounding tissues, and gauging the severity of the condition.
19897	Diagnosis of hyperprolinemia involves screening of the patient's urine. However, elution chomatography remains to be the most efficient and reliable means of quantitative analysis.
19899	Some psychiatric experts believe it's associate with obsessive-compulsive disorder, while others believe it's related to addiction and still others to impulse control disorders.
19900	Diagnosis is by observing the symptoms shown by the patient.
19901	One of the primary indicators of hypertension inlcudes getting the blood pressure, urine and blood etsts, as well as electrocardiogram and chest x-rays. An ultrasound may also be necessary for conducting an imaging study of the patient's heart.
19902	Diagnosis is often dependent on the increase in blood pressure levels. Some tests may include: blood pressure measurement, urine testing, assessment of edema, frequent weight measures, eye examination to check for retinal changes, liver and kidney function tests, and blood clotting tests.
19903	Hypertensive heart disease can be diagnosed by blood pressure count and observation of other preexisting arterial diseases in the patient.
19904	In diagnosing hypertensive retinopathy, fluorescein angiography, ophthalmoscopy, and sphygmomanometry may be used. Fluorescein angiography examines the circulation of the retina through a dye tracing method. An ophthalmoscope instrument is used to evaluate if the condition of the retina and the vitreous humor. Lastly, a sphygmomanometer is used to measure the patient's blood measure. This is particularly important because decreasing hypertension is an important strategy in treatment.
19905	Diagnosis would greatly rely on the symptoms manifested by the patients as well as history of exposure to direct heat. Body temperature and blood pressure are usually derived for better diagnosis.
19906	A diagnosis for hyperthyrodism is usually conducted through blood test in order to measuring the level of thyroid-stimulating hormone in the blood.
19907	The disorder can be diagnosed through the symptoms shown by the patient.
19908	An echocardiography may be done to determine aortic valve calcification or assess for a dilated ascending aorta. A physical examination to test for murmur of AI, pulse pressure after PVC, valsalva maneuver, and carotid pulsation is also recommended.
19910	There are no diagnostic tests needed to detect hyperventilation.
19911	Hyper IgM syndrome is diagnosed in individuals with extremely high levels of IgM. More commonly, however, the disorder may also be found on people with otherwise normal IgM levels but abnormally low levels of IgG and IgA (the two other major types of antibodies). A clinical test is now available which can reliably confirm or disprove the diagnosis. It is now also possible to assess DNA from female relatives to see if they are carriers of this particular genetic abnormality. A prenatal diagnostic test may also be done very early in the pregnancy.
19912	Diagnosis is done by optometric and ophthalmologic examinations.
19913	Clinical telltale signs of primary hypoadrenalism are skin pigmentations of afflicted patients. Sometimes, pigmentation also occurs in the inner wall of the cheeks. In fact, pigmentation occurs on any scars inflicted at the onset of the disease. If Addison's disease is suspected, blood tests will be performed. Patients with severe cortisol deficiency will exhibit decreased sodium levels and elevated potassium levels. Occasionally, blood sugar is low. In addition, a blood count will reveal elevated eosinophils (a white blood cell type) and abnormally large macrocytes (red cells). This abnormality is due to the presence of pernicious anaemia. Further blood tests must be conducted to screen for any associated autoimmune dysfunctions, including testing for thyroid function, vitamin B12, folate, iron and antibodies.
19914	Hypoaldosteronism may be diagnosed through unexplained hyperkalemia, low aldosterone concentration and an attenuated aldosterone response to ACTH. Individuals suspected of suffering from this condition must be asked about the use of any drug or of having a disease that can impair the release of aldosterone. If none of these conditions are present, then testing for other aldosterone insufficiency must be conducted.
19915	Hypocalcemia is diagnosed by conducting a complete physical examination and analysis of the patient's medical history. The blood is also tested for calcium levels.
19916	Generally, the disorder is chronic (lasts for a long time) unless the psychological factors or any related underlying mood disorder are addressed.
19917	The sickness is diagnosed by the behaviors the patient exhibits.
19918	The diagnosis of this condition is usually made through ultrasound. To confirm the diagnosis, biopsies, x rays and DNA testing is usually performed. Infants with hypochondrogenesis have short legs and arms and underdeveloped lungs encased in a small chest with short ribs. Their bones particularly in the spine, neck and pelvis are soft. Their faces are flat and oval and excess fluid may build up in their abdomen causing it to enlarge spondyloepiphyseal dysplasia congenital, a condition characterized by abnormal bone growth. Because patients with this disease usually do not live long enough to have children, the genetic disorder is not passed on to the next generation.
19919	It is extremely difficult to diagnose hypochondroplasia. This is because there is no one feature that is exclusive to this condition. The common practice is to combine x-ray and physical findings. DNA testing is sometimes conducted but it only detects 70% of the mutations that cause hypochondroplasia.
19920	The patient may undergo tests such as blood test, ACTH stimulation test, insulin-induced hypoglycemia test, and imaging tests.
19922	Hypoglycemia is often diagnosed by an endocrinologist, a specialist in glucose metabolic disorders. The following criteria are often used to diagnose the disease: recognized symptoms of hypoglycemia, low glucose during manifestation of symptoms and improvement of condition when glucose is returned to normal levels. Though often employed, these diagnostic criteria re not accepted by all medical experts. Even the level of glucose used to define hypoglycemia is contested by some doctors.
19923	A simple blood test can be performed by a doctor to identify low testosterone levels among men. The normal testosterone level is between 298 to 1098 ng/dl. To distinguish between primary and secondary hypogonadism, doctors measure gonadotropins. Adolescent individuals who displays delayed puberty are usually suspected of suffering from hypogonadism. Most delay though are temporary and are considered as being caused by hypogonadism.
19924	Diagnosis is by clinical observation of decreased sweating or by heat intolerance.
19925	Hypohidrotic ectodermal dysplasia is diagnosed through physical examination and assessment of medical and family history.
19926	If one is dehydrated, he or she is likely to have low blood pressure, especially when moving from a prone to a standing position, a faster than normal heart rate and reduced blood flow to the extremities.
19928	To diagnose hypokalemic periodic paralysis, the Compound Muscle Apmlitue Potential test is usually used. This is coupled with the patients history and reports of low potassium levels during attacks.
19930	Hypolipoproteinemia can be diagnosed by a study of the blood that determines fat particles. This test aids in the identification of both the high and low fat diseases. For accurate results, patients are told to fast overnight to avoid fat interference from food. In the blood, proteins and fats are grouped together by density. There are three groups of proteins and fats, namely, high-density lipoproteins (HDL), low-density lipoproteins (LDL), and very low-density lipoproteins (VLDL). Bigger particles called chylomicrons also exist.
19931	The doctor will take a medical history and conduct a physical examination. He or she will likely ask about the signs and symptoms, and whether the patient has experienced recent vomiting, diarrhea, or other significant fluid loss.
19932	Hypocalcemia is diagnosed by measuring levels of calcium, PTH and serum albumin in the blood.
19933	Hypophosphatasia is diagnosed after birth through a combination of physical examination, biochemical studies and x ray. Bone fractures may also be observed to confirm the diagnosis. The use of x ray is very helpful in distinguishing between the different forms of hypophosphatasia. Perinatal hypophosphatasia is often characterized by complete underminiralization of the bones.
19933	Hypophosphatasia is an inherited disorder characterized by defective bone and teeth mineralization and deficiency of serum and bone alkaline phosphatase (AP) activity. Other ways of diagnosis are: Osteogenesis imperfect; Rickets; Achondrogenesis.
19934	To diagnose post inflammatory hypopigmentation, visual inspection of the skin is showing hypopigmented or de-pigmented areas and compatible (fits the criteria) history of inflammation of the skin.
19935	Hypopituitarism may be diagnosed through features including poor growth, micropenis, hypoglycemia, delayed puberty, impaired libido, fatigue, polyuria, among others. A test is also conducted to measure the response of the pituitary gland to stimulants.
19939	A case of hypospadias may be suspected even in an uncircumcised boy from an abnormally formed foreskin and downward tilt of the glans.
19941	Measuring blood pressure, sometimes in both the lying (supine) and standing positions usually is the first step in diagnosing low blood pressure.
19942	Levels of hormones are determined trough blood and urine tests.
19946	Hypothyroidism is diagnosed by measuring the amount of thyroid-stimulating hormone being produced by the pituitary gland.
19949	Hypoxia in aquatic environments - refers to the decreased concentration of dissolved oxygen while in a body of water.
19950	The illness is diagnosed by restrictive observation of the patient's behavior.
19951	ICF Syndrome is diagnosed through a decrease in the level of serum IgM, IgA and IgG along with normal circulating B-cell count as detected by a processes called immunoelectrophoresis. The condition is confirmed through antigenic stimulation. Chronic lung disease or sinusitis as detected by x ray is also a sign.
19954	Jaundice is diagnosed by the abnormal yellow pigment of the skin. Stool examination is also done to detect increased amounts of bile secretions.
19955	ICU psychosis can be diagnosed through the observation of the symptoms shown by the patient.
19956	Idiopathic eosinophilic pneumonia is diagnosed through a combination of physical examination, analysis of symptoms, blood tests and x rays. Often, a patient is first diagnosed with asthma before being diagnosed with idiopathic eosinophilic pneumonia.
19958	The definitive diagnosis should be done after a clinical, radiological, and pathological evaluation of the patient, and only after excluding other causes of interstitial lung disease.
19960	Doctors usually diagnose idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura by excluding other possible causes of bleeding and a low platelet count, such as an underlying infection or illness or medications the patient may be taking. If no other underlying problem is causing the signs and symptoms, then a diagnosis of ITP may be made.
19961	The family may have a history of IgA deficiency. Tests that may be done include serum immunoelectrophoresis and quantitative immunoglobulins (serum IgA extremely low or absent).
19962	The disease can be diagnosed via medical examination as well as the symptoms showed by the patient.
19963	The doctor will ask about your symptoms and medical history, and perform a physical exam. Diagnosis is based on these factors are; pain around the lateral femoral epicondyle, tenderness when pressure is applied to this area, pain occurs when going from a straight leg to a bent knee
19964	Iliotibial band syndrome is diagnosed by x-ray examination as well as physical tests.
19965	Until now, no prenatal diagnostic tools are available to test for the condition. Diagnosis is only used to eliminate other causes. This is done by undertaking muscle biopsies, and blood tests and general clinical findings rule out other disorders and provides evidence for AMC.
19966	A dentist can evaluate the teeth and mouth to determine if there are impacted wisdom teeth or if another condition is causing the problems. Such evaluations typically include: a dental and medical history, dental exam, and dental x-rays.
19968	When an infant is born with an anorectal malformation, it is usually seen quickly as it is a very obvious defect. Doctors will then determine the type of defect the child was born with and whether or not there are any linked malformations. It is imperative that the presence of any associated defects be detected during the newborn period in order to treat them early and avoid further sequelae.
19970	The diagnosis is made based on the usual appearance of the skin lesion.
19971	Diagnosis can be made through X-ray examinations and presence of the symptoms.
19973	The penis contains two chambers, called the corpora cavernosa, which run the length of the organ. A like spongy tissue fills the chambers. The corpora cavernosa are surrounded by a membrane, also called as the tunica albuginea.
19975	Common screening tests used in the last sixty years include: ferric chloride test (turned colors in reaction to various abnormal metabolites in urine); ninhydrin paper chromatography (detected abnormal amino acid patterns); guthrie bacterial inhibition assay (detected a few amino acids in excessive amounts in blood); quantitative plasma amino acids, quantitative urine amino acids; and urine organic acids by mass spectrometry.
19976	A diagnosis for inclusion body myositis is based primarily on clinical signs and consequent testing. The initial clinical signs are the evident symptoms -- tripping, falling down, finger flexion weakness, inability to grip objects, etc. In addition, a variable of tests can help in diagnosing the disease, including a blood test to screen for CK (creatine kinase) levels. CK is a blood enzyme that is produced when muscle cells are damaged. Elevated CK levels thus indicate abnormal muscle damage. Meanwhile, an EMG (electromyography) can be done to identify characteristic abnormalities. The best diagnostic tool, however, is a muscle biopsy, wherein a small sample of the muscle is surgically removed for laboratory analysis.
19977	Inclusion conjunctivitis is typically considered when the patient has a follicular conjunctivitis that will not go away, even after using topical antibiotics. Diagnosis depends upon tests done on the discharge from the eye. Gram stains determine the type of microorganism, while culture and sensitivity tests determine which antibiotic will eliminate the harmful microorganism.
19978	Common tests for urinary incontinence include bladder diary, urinalysis, and blood test.
19979	The diagnosis of IP is done by clinical findings and occasionally by corroborative skin biopsy. Molecular genetic testing of the IKBKG gene (chromosomal locus Xq28) shows disease-causing mutations in about 80% of probands. Such testing is found clinically. Additionally, females with IP have skewed X-chromosome inactivation; testing for this can be used to support the diagnosis.
19980	The physician will ask about symptoms and probably check the abdomen and ask about medicines the patient took. Stool samples are collected to check for blood or bacteria. A sample of breath is also taken in case the patient had a special drink that may contain a substance called urea.
19981	The diagnosis is done by the clinical picture and the chest xray, which demonstrates decreased lung volumes (bell-shaped chest), absence of the thymus (after about 6 hours), a small (0.5-1 mm), discrete, uniform infiltrate (sometimes described as a "ground glass" appearance) that involves all lobes of the lung, and air-bronchograms (ie the infiltrate will outline the larger airways passages which remain air-filled). In extreme cases, this becomes exaggerated until the cardiac borders become inapparent (a 'white-out' appearance).
19982	Polio can be diagnosed by means of physical and medical examination.
19983	When a baby with infantile spasms has an EEG, the doctor will usually see an unusual pattern called hypsarrhythmia when the seizures are not occurring. This chaotic, high-voltage pattern is often crucial in confirming the diagnosis
19984	The diagnosis of SMAs includes a detailed clinical history. Obtaining a complete family history aids in genetic counseling. Inidividuals with SMA present with weakness and muscle wasting in the limbs, respiratory, and bulbar or brainstem muscles. They have no signs of cerebral or other CNS dysfunction. Patients with SMA often have above-average IQs and demonstrate high degrees of intelligence.
19985	The diagnosis depends on a combination of laboratory testing with careful history-taking and physical examination of the affected joint.
19986	The most crucial investigation is Blood culture. In general, a patient should fulfill the Duke Criteria to be able to establish the diagnosis of endocarditis.
19987	A history of genital infections, trauma or environmental exposure to toxins can reduce male fertility. Disorders of the endocrine system (hypothalmus, pituitary), structural dysfunction such as obstruction of the vas deferens, or many other conditions can cause male infertility.
19988	Inflammatory bowel disease can be hard to diagnose because there may be no symptoms, even if the person's bowel has become increasingly damaged for years. Once symptom appears, they often resemble those of other conditions, which may make it difficult for doctors to diagnose.
19989	A diagnosis of inflammatory breast cancer is based on the patient's medical history, her physical examination and an excisional biopsy - taking a small sample of skin and some of the underlying tissue to examine under a microscope.
19990	Secretions from the throat or nose can be used to make a definitive diagnosis of influenza.
19992	A physical exam is typically all that's needed to diagnose an inguinal hernia. The doctor is likely to ask about the patient's signs and symptoms and to check for a bulge in the groin area. Because coughing can make a hernia more prominent, the patient may be asked to cough or strain as part of the exam.
19993	The most usual way to diagnose is to perform a physical examination. The doctor will ask about signs and symptoms to check for a bulge in the groin area.
19994	Patients with delayed sleep phase syndrome are often mis-diagnosed with insomnia. If the patient has trouble getting some sleep, but has normal sleep architecture once asleep, a circadian rhythm disorder is a more likely cause.
19995	diagnosis of insulin resistance is not based on a measurement of insulin levels; this is because plasma insulin determinations done in commercial laboratories tend to be poorly standardized.
19996	The diagnosis is suspected in a patient with symptomatic fasting hypoglycemia. The conditions of Whipple's triad need to be met for the diagnosis of "true hypoglycemia" to be made: 1) symptoms and signs of hypoglycemia, 2) concomitant plasma glucose level of 45 mg/dL (2.5 mmol/L) or less, and 3) reversibility of symptoms with administration of glucose.
19997	Diagnosis is done by physical examination and detection of the twisted nerve.
19998	The condition can be diagnosed by the symptoms displayed by the patient.
19999	Diagnosis is made when other mental disorders that may cause violent outbursts have been ruled out. Furthermore, the acts of aggression must not be due to a general medical condition like a head injury, Alzheimer's disease, etc., or due to substance abuse or medication. Diagnosis is done using a psychiatric interview to affective and behavioral symptoms to the criteria listed in the DSM-IV.
20000	Internal bleeding can be only diagnosed during treatment.
20001	To diagnose interstitial cystitis, the doctor will take the patient's medical history and ask him to describe his symptoms. The doctor may also request that the patient keep a bladder diary, recording the volume he drinks and the volume of urine he passes. This information can be crucial for diagnosing interstitial cystitis. Tests used to diagnose IC includes urine tests, potassium sensitivity test, and cystoscopy.
20002	Chest X-ray, blood testing, pulmonary function testing and high-resolution CT thorax are some of the fundamental investigations that aid in diagnosis of ILD.
20003	Basing upon the appearance of your skin is where your health care provider can often make the diagnosis. A KOH examination or a skin scraping may also be done to rule out the possibility of a fungal infection, and furthermore, a Wood's lamp may also be used to rule out a bacterial infection called erythrasma.
20004	Computed tomography Barium contrast Exploratory surgery - to locate the pain and adhesions
20005	Intestinal flu can be diagnosed by examining the symptoms shown by the patient. Stool specimen tests and other laboratory testing can also be done.
20006	Several diagnostic tests include x-ray, endoscopy, colonoscopy, angiography, and CT scan.
20007	To diagnose Whipple's disease, the doctor may begin with a complete physical exam, looking for signs and symptoms that suggest the presence of the condition - for example, abdominal tenderness and skin darkening, particularly on sun-exposed parts of the body.
20008	Intestinal obstruction can be diagnosed by barium enema and CT scan.
20009	A complete medical history review is performed together with physical examination and x-rays to make sure that the symptoms are not because of an intestinal obstruction and to check for underlying illness.
20011	The best method to define the position and size of a hematoma is by imaging techniques, such as computerized tomography (CT) scan) and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scan.
20012	Diagnosis is usually suspected based on the postural dependency of the headache, although in many cases the diagnosis of intracranial hypotension is not considered for some time. A contrast-enhanced brain scan typically shows thickened and brightly enhancing meninges (pachymeningeal enhancement). Other discoveries include descent of the thalamus and cerebellar tonsils. Continuous intracranial pressure screening is definitive for documenting abnormally negative intracranial pressures.
20013	Treatment of DCIS has a high likelihood of success, in most instances taking out the tumor and preventing any recurrence, particularly a recurrence that spreads beyond the original site. The challenge is to prevent either overtreating or undertreating the condition. Treatment options for DCIS include: Lumpectomy only; lumpectomy and radiation therapy; lumpectomy and the drug tamoxifen; or simple mastectomy.
20014	Histologic analysis is essential in order to accurately diagnose this condition. Different presentations of symptoms require varied approaches in order to come up with the precise diagnosis. For example, in a patient with characteristic fundus lesion, the physician will submit the patient for a biopsy to diagnose the presence of the disease. While there are many methods available for obtaining intra-ocular specimen for the purpose of undergoing analysis, each method is performed on a step wise approach due to the underlying risk with the eye. Magnetic Resonance Image (MRI) of the brain is usually recommended for suspicions of Primary Intraocular Lymphoma. This is highly necessary in order to rule out any condition involving the cerebrum.
20015	One of the difficulties in diagnosing small melanomas is that it can be very hard to differentiate a small malignant melanoma from a benign pigmented tumor, such as an iris or choroidal nevus. At present there is no definitive test that clearly distinguishes a nevus from a small malignant melanoma. Even with special biopsy techniques, such as fine needle aspiration of the lesion, it can be very hard to differentiate a benign nevus from a malignant melanoma.
20016	IGR is detected through ultrasound examinations and once the baby is born.
20017	The condition can be diagnosed by physical examination of the affected child.
20018	The condition can be diagnosed via ultrasound while the patient is still inside his mother's womb, or by physical examination once the baby is born.
20019	LCIS does not appear on a mammogram (breast x-ray). It is usually found as a chance finding, when a sample of breast tissue is taken and examined under a microscope (biopsy), or when a breast lump is removed.
20020	In order to confirm iodine deficiency diagnosis, patient is required to undergo laboratory test including Radioiodine uptake tests and Triiodothyronine-resin uptake tests.
20023	Slit-lamp and ophthalmoscopic examinations are necessary to trace evidences related to a developing Iritis.
20024	Iron deficiency can be observed in persons with low red blood cell count, as well as the symptoms demonstrated.
20025	Anemia can be diagnosed from symptoms and signs, but when anemia is mild it may not be diagnosed from mild non-specific symptoms. Anemia is often primarily shown by routine blood tests, which generally include a complete blood count (CBC). A sufficiently low hemoglobin (HGB) or hematocrit (HCT) value is characteristic of anemia, and more studies will be undertaken to determine its cause and the exact diagnosis.
20026	Initial symptoms such as stiff joints and fatigue can result from a number of conditions that are more common than hemochromatosis. And in the latter stages of the disease, the doctor may focus on treating serious problems such as cirrhosis and heart disease rather than on checking for iron overload.
20027	The condition can be diagnosed by blood serum tests as well as the symptoms presented by the patient.
20028	Arrhythmias can be diagnosed by pulse rate measurements.
20029	The doctor may order urodynamic tests, which are used to assess the function of the bladder and its ability to empty itself steadily and completely. These tests generally require a referral to a specialist in urinary disorders (urologist) or urinary disorders in women (urogynecologist).
20030	There is no definite laboratory examination that can aid in diagnosing Irritable Bowel Syndrome, practically because there is still no clear and well-established biochemical cause for Irritable Bowel Syndrome.
20032	The doctor takes the patient's medical history and conducts a physical examination, during which the abdomen is checked for areas of tenderness. The patient may also undergo diagnostic procedures such as colonoscopy, biopsy, X-rays of the abdomen and pelvis, abdominal arteriogram, abdominal magnetic resonance imaging, abdominal computerized tomography scans, blood tests, and stool sample.
20033	The doctor is likely to conduct a thorough physical exam and ask questions about the patient's medical history, including when the itching started, what factors make it better or worse, and how he care for his skin.
20035	Diagnosis of ivy poison is done by physical examination of the mentioned symptoms.
20036	Thorough physical examination by a medical doctor is essential to verify less obvious discrepancies. X-ray is an important component in diagnosing Jackson-Weiss Syndrome. DNA testing can also be executed to confirm diagnosis based on physical features. It is also possible to test unborn babies for JWS through amniocentesis.
20037	Diagnosis of Jacobsen syndrome is usually undertaken after birth through chromosome analysis; an infant who is suspected for having the disorder because of distinctive facial appearance is requested to submit for a blood test.
20038	Diagnosis for Japanese Encephalitis is possible through IgM capture ELISA; with the help of this test antibodies in serum and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) are detected essential in the diagnosis of the disorder.
20038	The common tests to diagnose the disease are through blood test or spinal fluid.
20039	There is no particular diagnostic test for Jarcho-Levin syndrome, most infants are diagnosed based on their appearance.
20040	Many tests are available for determining the cause of jaundice, but the history and physical examination are important as well.
20042	Jejunal atresia is often diagnosed before birth through ultrasound. The ultrasound result will show a dilated segment in the intestine or too much build up of amniotic fluid in the uterus of the mother. Thorough ultrasound study can help in confirming the initial diagnosis.
20043	Diagnosis of Jervell and Lange Nielsen syndrome is confirmed after going through a series of diagnostic workups, which may include a combination or all of the following: urinalysis, CBC, EKG, chest x-ray, chemistry panel, glucose tolerance test (GTT), thyroid profile. History and physical exam may also be useful in identifying the etiology of the disorder.
20045	The best way to diagnose tinea cruris is to look for hyphae under the microscope, a KOH test. The skin is scraped with a scalpel or glass slide causing dead skin cells to fall off on a glass slide.
20047	The disease can be detected by tracing cases of the disease that occurred in the family's history.
20054	Schizophrenia in children and adolescents is often diagnosed by a child and adolescent psychiatrist. Other mental health professionals gnerally participate in the completion of a comprehensive mental health evaluation to determine individualized treatment needs.
20058	There are many useful diagnostic tests that can aid in diagnosing Kaposi's sarcoma but the fundamental tool to confirm diagnosis is a biopsy in order to proceed with direct histologic study of the tumor tissue.
20059	Physical appearance of the hand and foot can provide initial diagnosis.
20060	Chest x-ray or CT scan has the ability to distinguish and identify essential properties of Kartagener syndrome. To monitor any dysfunction in the cilia, a biopsy on a sample tissue taken out of the tracheal lining would be beneficial in aiding diagnosis.
20062	The only way to diagnose Kawasaki syndrome is through the aid of the five diagnostic criteria combined with fever, no particular laboratory test can identify the presence of this syndrome. The diagnostic criteria are cracking of the lips; rash on the trunk; swollen hands or feet; red eyes and swollen lymph node in the neck .
20064	Diagnosis of keloids is usually established by evaluating the appearance of the scar. For the purpose of ruling out tumor or other skin growths, a skin biopsy may perhaps be necessary.
20067	Diagnosis is confirmed through performing a skin biopsy.
20068	Manifestations of the symptoms are enough to confirm diagnosis; however, several tests can also be performed to examine any damage in the eye like Slit Lamp examination, Schirmer's test, and Tear Breakup Time (TBUT) Test.
20069	Diagnosis of Keratoconus begins with a thorough eye examination by an ophthalmologist or optometrist. Retinoscopy can also help in the diagnosis.
20071	Keratosis can be diagnosed by physical examination and skin biopsy.
20073	Visual examination may sometimes be enough to confirm diagnosis. In case of malignancy suspicion, a skin biopsy will be necessary.
20074	A kerion is often diagnosed by the doctor by just looking at it, however, in order to confirm the diagnosis, he or she may wish to scrape some surface skin scales onto a slide and examine them under a microscope.
20075	Jaundice and excessive levels of bilirubin are enough to confirm diagnosis of hyperbilirubinemia, which can suggest Kernicterus. However, extensive blood tests and comprehensive family and patient history are valuable in diagnosing the disease.
20077	Physical exam: Some doctor checks general signs of health and tests for fever and high blood pressure. Doctors also feel the abdomen and side for tumors. Urine tests: Urine is tested for blood and other signs of disease. Blood tests: Laboratories check the blood to see how well the kidneys are working. The lab can check the level of several substances, such as creatinine. High level of creatinine can mean the kidneys are not doing their job.
20078	Kidney failure can be diagnosed when a person reaches the advanced stages of an underlying kidney disease.
20079	Ultrasound is the imaging test most frequently used in diagnosing kidney failure, but the doctor may also order an abdominal computerized tomography (CT) or magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scan. In a few cases, the doctor may remove a small sample (biopsy) of kidney tissue and send it to a laboratory for microscopic examination to identify the cause of acute kidney failure.
20080	To diagnose a kidney infection, the health care provider reviews the patient's medical history, checking in particular for a history of urinary tract infection (UTI).
20081	Clinical diagnosis is usually made on the basis of the location and severity of the pain, which is typically colic in nature (comes and goes in spasmodic waves). Imaging is used to know the diagnosis and a number of other tests can be undertaken to help establish both the possible cause and consequences of the stone. Ultrasound imaging is also helpful as it will give details about the presence of hydronephrosis.
20082	Diagnosis of Kikuchi Disease is confirmed by means of lymph node biopsy.
20083	Standard procedures to confirm diagnosis include: Caffeine-Halothane Contracture Test (CHCT), Calcium-Induced Calcium Release Test, and muscle biopsy.
20084	The doctor may use other blood tests to look for an elevated number of white blood cells (lymphocytes) or abnormal-looking lymphocytes. These blood tests will not confirm mononucleosis, but they may suggest it as a possibility.
20086	Recurrent failure to resist impulses to steal objects that are not needed for personal use or for their monetary value, Increasing sense of tension immediately before committing the theft, Pleasure, gratification, or relief at the time of committing the theft. The stealing is not committed to express anger or revenge and is not in response to a delusion or as hallucination
20087	The only reliable method to confirm diagnosis of Klinefelter's syndrome is through karyotype testing.
20088	Confirming diagnosis is based only through the presence of a combination of the symptoms for Klippel Trenaunay-Weber Syndrome.
20094	Diagnosis is achieved through X-ray of both feet.
20095	As of the moment, there is still no particular laboratory or diagnostic procedure present to confirm diagnosis of Korsakoff's syndrome.
20096	The primary sign of Kostmann Syndrome shows an absolute neutrophil count (ANC) of unremittingly less than 500/mm3. To confirm diagnosis, a standard bone marrow test is necessary.
20097	The disease may be diagnosed by its characteristic grouping of certain cells, destruction of brain cells, and nerve demyelination and degeneration. Special stains for myelin may be used to help in diagnosis.
20098	MRI of the brain and spinal cord; echocardiogram; and ocular ultrasonogram may be performed based on the clinical findings from the physical examination.
20099	The tumor can be diagnosed through CT scans, biopsy of the ovary and laparotomy.
20100	Kugelberg-Welander disease is diagnosed based on the symptoms presented by the patient.
20102	To date, no prenatal diagnostic tools are available to test for Kuskokwim disease. Diagnosis is only used to eliminate other causes.
20103	Diagnosis is usually based on clinical appearance and diet history of the patient with Kwashiorkor.
20105	Two types of X-ray have the capability to detect and help in diagnosis of Kyphosis namely: Scolie and AP-Lateral.
20108	To assess lactose intolerance, the intestinal function is challenged by ingesting more dairy than can be easily digested. Clinical symptoms generally appear within 30 minutes but may take up to 1-2 hours depending on other foods and activities. Substantial variability of the clinical response (symptoms of nausea, cramping, bloating, diarrhea, and flatulence) are to be expected as the extent and severity of lactose intolerance differs between individuals.
20109	The doctor diagnoses mastitis based on a physical examination, taking into account signs and symptoms of fever, chills and a painful area in the breast. Another obvious sign is a wedge-shaped area on the breast that points toward the nipple and is tender to the touch.
20111	Formal testing for lactose intolerance is valuable. Not only testing can confirm lactose intolerance and prompt the institution of a reduced or lactose-free diet, but it also can exclude lactose intolerance and direct attention to diagnosing other conditions and diseases that are responsible for the symptoms.
20112	Axillary skin biopsy examination is initiated to show manifestations of Lafora bodies within the sweat cells of the skin; thus confirm diagnosis of Lafora Disease.
20113	Clinical and laboratory findings are methods used to establish diagnosis of this syndrome.
20114	Physical appearance and clinical presentations of the significant characteristics of an infant with Lamellar Ichthyosis can possibly be enough to confirm diagnosis of the disease.
20115	Landau-Kleffner syndrome is not easy to diagnose and there is a possibility for the disorder to be misdiagnosed as other types of behavioral and mental disorders.
20116	The most effective method to diagnose Landouzy-Dejerine muscular dystrophy is through genetic testing; however certain other tests can be used but they are less accurate than genetic testing. This includes Creatine Kinase level, Electromyogram, nerve conduction velocity, and muscle biopsy.
20117	Diagnosis is achieved immediately at birth or in early childhood years.
20118	Histological portion of Langerhans cell histiocytosis is diagnosed by means of tissue biopsy. Other diagnostic methods can also be vital like routine blood tests, Radiology, Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI), endocrine function evaluation and bone marrow biopsy.
20119	Diagnosis is confirmed through AFP screening and detailed fetal ultrasound.
20121	X-ray would be helpful to diagnose Larsen Syndrome.
20122	Physical examination, x-ray images and laboratory testing can be performed to detect the onset of the cancer.
20123	Thorough medical history and physical examination would be helpful in establishing diagnosis of Laryngeal Carcinoma; however confirming diagnosis would be easier with the help of one or combination of the following: CT scan, MRI or Chest X-ray.
20124	Diagnosis of Laryngeal Papillomatosis is achieved with the aid of Direct and Indirect Laryngoscopy.
20125	Doctors examine vocal cords using an instrument with a light and a mirror placed in the back of the throat, which allows the doctor to see the vocal cords reflected in the mirror. Another way to check the vocal cords is with a flexible fiber optic scope.
20128	Laryngeal cancer can be diagnosed via X-ray imaging.
20129	Laboratory test that aid in the diagnosis of Lassa fever include: ELISA test, IgM antibodies.
20131	To diagnose this disease there are several test that has to be made: X-ray, Magnetic resonance imaging for patients who has severe chronic pain, and biomechanics and motion analysis.
20132	Skin test in which skin is pricked and exposed to latex can determine your reaction to latex. In this test, less amounts of latex are placed on the skin of your forearm or back. Blood test could measure your immune system's response to latex by assessing the amount of allergy-type antibodies in your bloodstream, known as immunoglobulin E (IgE) antibodies.
20133	Lattice dystrophy can be diagnosed by eye examinations.
20135	Lazy eye is diagnosed with a thorough eye exam, wherein the doctor will look for a wandering eye, as well as a difference in vision between the eyes or poor vision in both eyes. Special diagnostic tests aren't usually required.
20136	The disease can be be detected as early as a person's childhood, when the patient begins to display lethargic muscles, retinal disorders and hypoglycemia. Problems in the nervous system may also occur during late childhood, and when left untreated, the patient may slip into a coma or sudden death.
20137	Doctors use a blood test to detect lead poisoning. A few blood sample is taken from a finger prick or from a vein. Lead stages in the blood are measured in micrograms per deciliter (mcg/dL). The crucial level is 10 mcg/dL or higher a guideline set by the CDC.
20138	Optical coherence topography is a procedure used to detect the onset of the disease.
20139	Diagnostic exams such as optical coherence topography, as well as other eye examinations are done to detect the presence swelling nerves in the anterior area.
20140	Leber's Disease is difficult to diagnose, and usually suspected patients undergo a neuro-ophthalmological test as well as DNA assessment in order to find strains of the syndrome.
20141	Diagnosis of the disease can be done by a procedure called optical coherence topography to find a more detailed picture of the swelling nerves.
20142	Tests such as optical coherence topography are used to detect the presence of leber's optic neuropathy.
20142	Tests such as optical coherence topography are used to detect the presence of Leber's optic neuropathy.
20145	Left heart failure can be diagnosed by undergoing a physical as well as an electrocardiogram (ECG) examination.
20146	Leg cramps should be distinguished from another common cause of night leg discomfort called restless legs syndrome, a condition in which your legs have a creepy, crawly or fidgety sensation unless you move them. The sensation usually worsens as night approaches.
20147	The disease may be acquired by people of any age, but it often affects chain smokers and middle-aged persons, or those with chronic lung disease. Legionella strains are found in one's sputum and blood samples, as well in urine tests.
20151	Leishmaniasis is diagnosed through blood and MRI examinations. In most cases, patients diagnosed with the diseases are also found with damaged organs such as the liver and spleen.
20152	Patients diagnosed with Lemierre's syndrome are as well observed with abscesses in the vital organs such as the lungs, brain and kidneys, especially when the disease is already at the advanced stage.
20153	The disease can be diagnosed through EEG, CT scans and MRI.
20158	Leptospirosis can be diagnosed by tests such as Enzyme-Linked Immunosorbent Assay as well as PCR and serological testing. The bacteria can also be found present in the bloodstream during the first 10 days upon incurring the disease.
20159	Patients with the disease are diagnosed with high levels of creatinine concentration in the urine. Hyperuricemia is also present, and enzyme activity is 1.5% less than normal.
20161	The disease is diagnosed by a deficiency in the enzyme branched-chain a-keto acid dehydrogenase, which results to a build up of branched-chain amino acids as well as their toxic waste.
20162	The disease is diagnosed by various blood tests, and persons with the disease usually have very low platelet and hemoglobin counts, as well as abnormally high white blood cell count.
20163	The disease is easily diagnosed due to the presence of lymphocytosis, or an increased white blood cell count. Abnormal overpopulation of B lymphocytes in the bone marrow, blood and tissues indicate the onset of chronic B cell Leukemia.
20164	Myeloid leukemia is when complete blood count results show abanormal increase in granulocytes. A bone marrow biopsy is as well performed to confirm the onset of the disease.
20165	In diagnosing Chronic T-Cell Leukemia, a high lymphocyte count is a common indicator. Anemia and thrombocytopenia may also show up in lab results. Frequently, HTLV-1 serologies turn out negative, whereas serum immunoglobin levels are within normal ranges.
20166	Patients undergo several immune function tests, and results would show high levels of neutrophils which are already harmful to the bloodstream.
20168	Globoid cell leukodystrophy can be diagnosed through nerve demyelination, destruction of brain cells and a characteristic grouping of multinucleated globoid cells.
20170	Magnetic resonance imaging and ultrasound can be used to diagnose leukomalacia.
20173	Diagnosis include interview of medical history, basic medical tests such urine and blood tests, as well as mental status evaluation. Brain scans can also be conducted to conduct extensive assessment of memory, the problem-solving of the abilities, counting and language skills and attention spans. Diagnosis can be quite difficult so extensive testing is quite necessary.
20174	Since the Lewy Bodies themselves can only be identified by autopsy, an accurate diagnosis relies heavily on physician awareness of the defining characteristics of the disease. A brain scan may detect mental deterioration, but not the actual Lewy Bodies.
20176	The disease is confirmed to be present when the suspected patient is diagnosed with a sarcoma below the age of 45, and two of his relatives has been diagnosed with cancer below the same age.
20177	The presence of head lice is indicated by repeated itching of the scalp, or by detecting them in one's hair.
20178	Lichen nitidus is typically discovered when the papules suddenly emerge on the skin. The doctor can determine whether the patient has lichen nitidus by its characteristic appearance or by taking a small sample of tissue (biopsy) and examining the tissue under a microscope.
20179	Lichen planus can be diagnosed by undergoing biopsy, since the symptoms of the disease resemble other skin illnesses.
20180	Usually, a dentist is the first to notice oral lichen planus during a routine examination.
20181	Doctors can diagnose an advanced case by examining the skin. However, early or mild disease often needs a biopsy (removal and examination of a small sample of affected skin).
20182	Diagnosis is typically based on the skin's appearance and a history of itching and scratching. The doctor may also recommend one of the following tests to rule out other causes or to confirm the diagnosis: patch testing and punch biopsy.
20184	Liddle syndrome can be diagnosed when a child is found to have high serum sodium levels and low serum potassium. The child may also be suffering from Conn's syndrome as another effect of the disease.
20185	A sprain can be confirmed by the doctor with a physical exam of the affected area.
20187	Lip cancer may be diagnosed with a combination of any of the following procedures: biopsy, computed tomography (CT or CAT) scan, ultrasonography, magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), as well as endoscopic procedures to view the mouth, nasal cavity, esophagus, throat, and larynx.
20190	A doctor can make a diagnosis by physical examination of the lump. If there's any doubt, the doctor may do other tests, such as removal of a tissue sample (biopsy) for examination in a laboratory.
20192	Lissencephaly is diagnosed by ultrasound, magnetic resonance imaging, and computed tomography.
20193	Diagnosis can be made at birth or soon after. To confirm the diagnosis, ultrasound, CT scan, or MRI can be done to obtain images of the afflicted brain. If a risk of lissencephaly is present, genetic counseling is often recommended. To detect lissencephaly during pregnancy, genetic testing can be done.
20195	The bacterium L. monocytogenes can be cultured from the blood, but there are no available stool or serological tests to diagnose this disease.
20196	Many kidney stones go unnoticed until they cause acute symptoms - specifically, the pain of a stone going through the ureter. Occasionally, however, kidney stones are discovered in the course of looking for the cause of chronic urinary tract infections or blood in the urine.
20197	The individual is diagnosed as having liticaphobia if their persistent fear are irrational and has adversely affected their daily lives.
20198	Tests used to determine liver abscess include: abdominal imaging studies such as a CT scan or MRI; abdominal ultrasound; liver biopsy; liver scan; complete blood count; liver function tests; and a serology exam to screen for amebiasis.
20199	Screening for liver cancer hasn't been definitively proved to reduce the risk of dying of liver cancer. For this reason, several medical groups don't recommend liver cancer screening.
20200	The best way to determine liver cirrhosis is by liver biopsy. Other laboratory measures are also taken to further learn about other complications of the disease, such as imaging and endoscopy.
20201	Liver neoplasms are easily determined when tumors are found in the liver after a CT scan of the abdomen.
20202	The doctor can diagnose liver spots by inspecting the skin. Some conditions that may look similar to liver spots are moles, seborrheic keratoses, and lentigo maligna.
20205	Doctors can diagnose tetanus based on a physical exam and the signs and symptoms of muscle spasms, stiffness and pain. Laboratory tests typically aren't helpful for diagnosing tetanus.
20207	The illness can be diagnosed through genetic testing and observation of the symptoms shown by the patient.
20208	Loiasis can be seen under microscopic examination of blood samples. To further confirm the onset of the disease, centrifugation of the blood sample in 2& formalin and filtration methods are held.
20209	Loin pain hematuria syndrome can be related with chronic pelvic pain, glomerular basement membrane disease, and as well can be a psychosomatic disorder.
20214	Lordosis can be diagnosed based on clinical manifestations. A physician will typically perform a physical exam and then ask questions relating to the time pattern, quality, and related symptoms of the curvature. Other diagnostic steps that may be taken include: lumbosacral spine x-ray, spine x-ray, plus a number of other tests to rule out other possible causes.
20216	Diagnosis of Louis Bar syndrome is done after testing for both ataxia and oculocutaneous telangiectasia, followed by screening for low levels of IgA, IgG2, IgG4, and IgE. Afflicted patients may also show a decreased lymphocyte count plus other immunological defects. Cytogenetic and molecular testing is recommended to confirm the initial diagnosis. To assess for cerebellar atrophy, MRI and CT scans may be needed.
20217	Diagnosis is usually done by looking for a particular antibody in serum and simulating the presence of the virus in a dead animal's brain.
20218	Hypoglycemia can be diagnosed by regular monitoring of blood sugar levels.
20219	By definition, one may be diagnosed with hypoactive sexual desire disorder if screening tests reveal a persistent or recurrent lack of sexual thoughts or receptivity to sexual activity, which causes the patient personal distress.
20221	Diagnostic tests for lower back pain include the evaluation of the present symptoms, X-ray findings and imaging studies to determine the presence of swelling or tumors in the lower back area.
20222	In diagnosis of LSA, CD8/CD57-positive epidermotropic lymphocytes frequently serve as markers for a chronic deposition. Levels of intraepidermal major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class II-positive cells may also be elevated.
20223	Diagnostic serological testing often leads to a diagnosis of syphilis. Modern methods include Rapid Plasma Reagin (RPR) and Venereal Disease Research Laboratory (VDLR) tests, both of which are routinely used in screening for blood donors. Neurosyphilis is usually diagnosed when elevated amounts of leukocytes in the CSF and high protein concentration in the syphilis infection are found.
20224	If the phobia advances to such a degree that the individual no longer has control over it, or if the fear is interfering with the individual's ability to perform routine tasks, a possible diagnosis can be made under one of the anxiety disorders.
20225	Lumbago can be diagnosed on the basis of information provided by the affected patients, along with medical history and physical symptoms. X-rays, imaging studies, and blood tests are rarely necessary, unless a more serious underlying condition is suspected.
20226	Diagnosis of lung abscess is based on the patient's medical history, physical examination, and imaging studies. A bronchoscopy sometimes may be done to rule out the possibility of lung cancer. In cases of serious infections, a fiberoptic bronchoscope with a protected specimen brush may be inserted to take material directly from the affected patient's lungs to determine the presence of infectious organisms. In majority of cases, chest X-ray results are usually sufficient to make a diagnosis.
20227	A chest x-ray is an initial diagnostic step in determining lung cancer. An x-ray may uncover a visible mass, atelectasis, mediastinum, or pleural effusion. If the x-ray does not reveal any indicative results but suspicion of cancer remains high, a bronchoscopy or a CT scan, both of which are often used to distinguish the type of tumor, may provide some insights.
20228	Pneumothorax is most aften diagnosed using a chest xray, though other tests are sometimes performed, such as CT scan and blood tests.
20229	Diagnosis of a potential lung neoplasm is still unclear. Patients need to immediately undergo chest radiograph and seek medical opinion from a lung specialist.
20230	Diagnosing lupus is difficult because signs and symptoms vary considerably from person to person. Signs and symptoms of lupus can change over time and overlap with those of many other disorders.
20231	Lupus anticoagulant can be diagnosed by serological testing to measure the blood's ability to clot.
20233	Diagnosis for lupus nephritis typically involves one or a combination of the following tests: urinalysis, blood tests, X-rays, ultrasound of the kidney, as well as a kidney biopsy.
20234	A biopsy is recommended to detect premalignant and malignant lesions at the onset. Telltale lesions may appear in the epidermis. Classic histoligic manifestations may also form the basis for diagnosis.
20235	Diagnosis for Lyell's syndrome can be done clinically. Visible signs and symptoms of the disease can usually lead to an appropriate diagnosis. On occasion, a microscopic examination of affected tissues may be necessitated to distinguish it from other possible entities.
20236	Some developmental psychologists believe that lygophobia is a transient phase in child development, usually manifesting at the age of 2. Sigmund Freud and neofreudian researchers consider lygophobia as a symptom of separation anxiety. In the 1960s, a clinical experiment was done to condition fear of the dark on rats, which are normally nocturnal animals. Scotophobin was found to be the substance responsible for remembering this phobia and extracted from the brains of the rats. However, these findings were later debunked.
20237	Lyme disease can be diagnosed on the basis of clinical exam findings, plus a history of exposure to Lyme areas. The EM rash, which does not manifest in every case, is enough to establish a diagnosis even if serologies turn out negative. Blood tests can be useful, but have no diagnostic relevance.
20238	A physical exam and laboratory tests may be done to diagnose the problem.
20239	Your doctor is likely to take a medical history, ask about when and how your swollen lymph nodes developed, ask about other signs and symptoms, and check your palpable lymph nodes for size, tenderness, warmth and texture
20240	When lymphangiectasia is suspected, diagnosis can be confirmed through biopsy. Hypoproteinemia, along with lowered levels of lymphocytes and cholesterol, frequently support the diagnosis. Low calcium, or hypocalcaemia, may also be an indicative factor. Conducting a medical ultrasonography may reveal striations lining the intestinal mucosa, which indicate dilated lacteals.
20241	In order to confirm the presence or absence of the LMA, the following are clinical diagnosis are used, to wit: Chest X-ray, pulmonary function tests, blood tests, computed tomography and lung biopsy.
20242	Diagnostic tests to determine lymphangiomas include blood tests, CAT scans, and a biopsy or fine needle aspirate.
20243	Lymphatic Filariasis is diagnosed through identifying microfilaria on a Giemsa Stained thick blood film. Thus, blood test is used to detect the existence of the parasite.
20244	Objective measurement of the difference between the affected arm or limb and the unaffected limb is the first way of early diagnosis of the disease. Bioimpedance measurement that measure the amount of fluid in the limb has been shown to have greater sensitivity that other existing methods and hold promise as a simple diagnostic and screening tool. (Mary Ann Liebert, Inc. - Lymphatic Research and Biology - 4(1): 51. Retrieved on 2007-11-01).
20245	Lymphocytic choriomeningitis may be diagnosed based on typical and atypical clinical features.
20246	The disorder is not usually detected or noticed until the affected individual experiences irritation of the cornea or ulceration.
20247	Diagnosis is done through lymph node biopsy especially if there is already enlarged nodes which can easily be accessed. It is also confirmed through series of CT Scan and Ultrasound Scans (Furie, B. 2003. Clinical Hematology and Oncology, Presentation, Diagnosis and Treatment).
20248	The most accurate test in diagnosing lymphocytic colitis is through direct visualization or sigmoidoscopy or colonoscopy. Barium enemais also used to detect the disease.
20249	Culture - to identify serotypes DFA (fluorescent antibody test), PCR of possible affected areas and pus Serological testing
20249	Lymphogranuloma venereum may be diagnosed based on the patient's medical history, along with physical examination that indicates recent sexual contact with an infected person, signs of ulcer on the genitals, and other clinical manifestations. Other diagnostic steps may include a biopsy of the infected node, serology test for LGV, and indirect immunofluorescence for Chlamydia.
20250	The diagnosis of LGV is usually made serologically (through complement fixation) and by exclusion of other causes of inguinal lymphadenopathy or genital ulcers.
20251	Lymphoma is diagnosed through interview and laboratory tests and examinations like those done through blood tests, biopsy, imaging studies like x-rays, CT scan, MRI scan, lymphangiogram and Gallium scan. Bone Marrow examination is also used to detect lymphoma.
20257	Biopsy of the lymph nodes, historical evaluation of tonsils, bone marrow, liver, bowel and skin are the most common way of diagnosing the disease. Other test includes bone and chest x-rays , lymphangiography, liver and spleen scan.
20258	Lymphoma is diagnosed through interview and laboratory tests and examinations like those done through blood tests, biopsy, imaging studies like x-rays, CT scan, MRI scan, lymphangiogram and Gallium scan. Bone Marrow examination is also used to detect lymphoma.
20259	Doctors may perform tumor testing such as immunohistochemisttry (IHC) testing, microsatellite instability (MSI) testing, and genetic testing to diagnose Lynch syndrome.
20260	Diagnosis includes biochemical findings and screening of known mutations of the causative gene from a DNA sample (Simell O, et al (1975) "Lysinuric protein intolerance". Am J Med. 59(2):229-40.)
20261	Detection of the disease includes examination of medical history, physical examination including otoscopy and neurologic status, otolaryngologist examination, skeletal assessment and CT scan of the brain (Grewal SS, Shapiro EG, Krivit W, Charnas L, Lockman LA, Delaney KA, Davies SM, Wenger DA, Rimell FL, Abel S, Grovas AC, Orchard PJ, Wagner JE, Peters C (2004) Effective treatment of alpha-mannosidosis by allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation. J Pediatr 144:569-73).
20262	Diagnosis includes urine screening test, lysosomal enzyme screening test and other hispathological techniques are used to detect the disease.
20263	Diagnosis of lyssavirus infections require laboratory tests to screen for the presence of the invading virus in the blood, skin, spinal fluid, nervous tissue, and other tissues.
20264	Laboratory tests like muscle biopsy and nonischemic tests are used to aid diagnosis of Mac Ardle Disease.
20265	Machado-Joseph Disease can be diagnosed on the basis of physical symptoms and family history. A genetic test may be done for a definitive diagnosis.
20266	Diagnosis requires laboratory examination of the bone marrow for abnormal lymphocytes. Urine and blood tests also are done to detect the numbers of macroglobulin protein.
20267	Examination of the family history and physical examination of the tongue are used to diagnose the presence or absence of Macroglossia dominant.
20268	Optical coherence tomography and Fluorescein angiography are used to diagnose Macular degeneration.
20269	Optical coherence tomography and Fluorescein angiography are used to diagnosed Macular degeneration juvenile.
20270	Optical coherence tomography and Fluorescein angiography are used to diagnose Macular degeneration that is age-related.
20271	Optical coherence tomography and Fluorescein angiography are used.
20272	Common diagnostic tests to determine macular holes include: Amsler gird, visual acuity testing, and an ophthalmoscopy. All of these tests are performed to assess the health and function of the eye's macula. In addition, standard imaging studies may also be done for a closer look of the affected macula.
20273	Laboratory testing that detect prions in blood or tissues may be used to detect this kind of disease.
20274	No specific tests are used in detection of the clinical condition because it usually starts during childhood where the skin and bone develops unusually slow over time. (Kuwahara, R. T., & Rasberry, R. (2003). Maffucci syndrome).
20275	Magnesium deficiency can be diagnosed based on physical symptoms accompanied by serology tests to assess magnesium levels.
20276	There is no definitive tests used to confirm the presence pr absence of Mal de debarquement, it is a diagnosed through exclusions and ruling out of other conditions.
20277	Malabsorption may be diagnosed on the basis of personal medical history, physical examination, blood tests, and stool studies. Sometimes, an intestinal biopsy may be needed for further analysis.
20278	Examination of medical history as well as physical examinations is used to detect the early signs of the clinical condition. Laboratory examinations are also used.
20279	Microscopic examination of blood films is the most reliable and most affordable procedure in diagnosing malaria; essentially because it allows the pathologist to determine the specific parasite specie that caused the malarial infection. Each of this species possesses their own distinguishing characteristics.
20280	To diagnose the condition several tests including breast examinations are recommended like Clinical breast exam, Mammogram, Breast ultrasound (ultrasonography), Nipple discharge examination, Biopsy, Fine-needle aspiration biopsy, Core needle biopsy.
20281	The doctor may test your blood level of testosterone if there is any of the signs or symptoms of hypogonadism. Early detection in boys can help stop problems from delayed puberty. Early diagnosis and treatment in men provides better protection against osteoporosis and other related conditions. Doctors base a diagnosis of hypogonadism on symptoms and results of blood tests that measure the patient's testosterone levels. Because testosterone levels differ and are generally highest in the morning, blood testing is usually done early in the day.
20282	Male menopause can be diagnosed by studying the symptoms given by the patient.
20283	Diagnosis of male pseudohermaphroditism due to 17-beta-hydorxysteroid dehydrogenase deficiency-3 is often detected due to absence of the first menstruation that is generally expected to come about in all female persons and when they gradually display common characteristic of a male person reaching puberty including acne, male musculature, and development of male voice characteristics. In the course of the examination, the medical practitioner will discover the testis in the inguinal channel.
20284	Presence of malignant fibrous histiocytoma is detected through a Magnetic Resonance Imaging. In order to define the characteristic of the cancer, a biopsy is highly necessitated.
20285	The caffeine-halothane contracture test (CHCT) is the most common and recognized as standard procedure to diagnose patients who are vulnerable to suffer malignant hyperthermia. The procedure begins by getting a muscle biopsy and bathing that fresh biopsy in caffeine or halothane solution while observing contraction.
20286	Endoscopy is the most definitive diagnosis for Mallory-Weiss syndrome.
20288	There is increased lactic and malonic acid in the patient that lowers blood pH causing lactic and malonic aciduria.
20289	No single diagnosis procedure is known to provide diagnosis for Malouf Syndrome.
20290	Physical examination as well as laboratory tests are conducted to detect the presence of the bacteria in the body.
20292	Additional tests may include ultrasound, xray, and examination of nipple discharge.
20293	Self-reported incidents by the patient and family members as well as clinical observations (secondary signs) noticed by a medical practitioner are considered as bases for diagnosis of the disorder. The symptoms observed from the patient should meet the criteria established before final diagnosis can be achieved.
20294	Diagnosis of Mannosidosis is achieved by measuring enzyme activity in white blood cells and in due course measuring chemical presence in the urine. Unfortunately, this action is often made late resulting to under diagnosis of the condition.
20295	Diagnosis of Mansonelliasis is made by placing a skin nip in saline and observing the microfilaria become apparent and surface. Confirming diagnosis is achieved by microscopic examination of the peripheral blood or skin biopsies.
20296	Biopsy along with other additional diagnostic tests are carried out like blood test, bone marrow samples, x-rays, and scans plays an important role in the diagnosis of Mantle cell lymphoma.
20297	Map-Dot-Fingerprint Dystrophy can be determined based on visible abnormalities in the cornea's appearance. A workup that involves retroillumination and keratometry may also help in diagnosis.
20298	Even with dietary treatment, stressful situations and illness can still cause high levels of certain amino acids. Death can occur during these episodes. With strict dietary treatment, children have grown as healthy adulthood.
20302	Diagnosis of Marek's disease necessitates veterinary examination. Oftentimes, diagnosis is confirmed based on clinical signs alongside post-mortem findings.
20303	The presence of long limbs, dislocated lenses, and dilated aortic root is enough to suggest diagnosis of Marfan syndrome.
20304	Diagnosis of Marinesco-Sjogren syndrome is usually based on the clinical symptoms present.
20305	Diagnosis of Maroteaux-Lamy syndrome is confirmed by carrying out a number of relevant laboratory diagnostic tests like urine test and enzyme test.
20306	Marshall syndrome can be diagnosed based on the appearance and symptoms present. Genetic testing can aid diagnosis of the syndrome but it is not recommended most of the time because it is expensive.
20307	Thorough physical examination and analyzing the patient's medical history play a great part in diagnosis of Marshall-Smith syndrome because there is no genetic testing procedure that can diagnose the condition.
20308	Martin-Bell syndrome is diagnosed by antenatal testing and DNA test.
20309	Medical history, laboratory screening, and a physical exam are usually sufficient to diagnose masculinisation.
20310	A biopsy of the skin patches can help in the diagnosis of Mast cell disease as well as urine or blood test that is aimed to detect elevated levels of histamine.
20311	Some physicians have women chart their breast pain to find out if the pain is cyclical or not. After a few months, the association between the menstrual cycle and breast pain will emerge.
20312	Confirmation of the presence of the infection is through physical examination and the presence of the symptoms as they exists in the patient, for example is the wedge-shaped area on the breast that points toward the nipples.
20313	In the case of urticaria pigmentosa or cutaneous mastocytosis, doctors examine a skin sample with distinct dark-brown and fixed lesions to confirm the existence of the disorder. In a systemic mastocytosis, doctors examine a sample from an organ like the bone marrow to examine whether there is an increase in mast cells. The disorder may also be determined through presence of high levels of certain mast-cell chemicals and proteins in the blood or urine.
20313	Doctors can diagnose urticaria pigmentosa (cutaneous mastocytosis, see below) by seeing the characteristic lesions that are dark-brown and fixed. A tiny skin sample (biopsy) may help confirm the diagnosis.
20314	Diagnosis of mastoiditis is normally clinical and based on a physical exam as well as on medical history. More specific diagnosis can be accomplished with a CT scan to show possible abscesses within the bone structures.
20316	Maternal death is rarely ever predicted. If there is a need to determine the cause of maternal death, an autopsy may be an option.
20318	Diagnosis of the diseases is also clinically based with a physical examination of patients who are asked to demonstrate certain physical tasks. Family history is also examined because the disorder tends to be hereditary. Tests include a forearm exercise test, blood samples for the detection of lactate and ammonia and a possible muscle biopsy to find specific instances of glycogen absorption.
20319	The existence of the syndrome is suspect when an individual reaches puberty prematurely, has Fibrous dysplasia, or CafΘ-au-lait spots. However, the syndrome may not show until the patient is near puberty or it may be diagnosed during infancy with evident bone disorder and increased secretions of endocrine from several glands.
20320	Diagnosis is normally done from a clinical analysis of the symptoms which are so definitive that adults who have been through the disease can immediately identify it. Reported contact with a person with measles also offers confirmation. Clinical tests include testing for antibodies.
20321	Diagnosis usually zeroes in on whether the patient has Dysplastic kidneys which occur 95 to 100% in all identified cases who have the disorder. The diagnosis will try to see if there are microscopic cysts develop within the kidney. In fetal analysis, testing is also normally done on the level of amniotic fluid within the womb.
20322	Confirmation of the injury includes physical examination of the person and to some extent the use of X-ray to rule out other conditions like breaking of the bone.
20323	Diagnosis for mediastinal fibrosis includes CBC count, blood cultures, gram stain, chest radiographs, CT scans and MRI examinations to be able to come up with definitive diagnosis.
20324	Early diagnosis will depend on the signs and symptoms that are usually observed during early childhood. Diagnostic tests can be performed to confirm such as blood testing to check the hemoglobin levels. A DNA analysis may also be performed when deemed necessary. For mild cases of Mediterranean anemia, the symptoms are rarely noticeable and can go unnoticed all through the person's lifetime.
20325	Diagnosis is clinically made based on the history of typical attacks, and based on whether the patient traces his ancestry from the ethnic groups which the disease is found to be prevalent. Biological markers used for diagnosis include high C-reactive protein levels and elevated white blood cell counts. Genetic testing is also currently used.
20326	Diagnosis is usually focused on resulting complications the impairment of fatty acid oxidation.
20327	Diagnosis is normally done through abdominal ultrasound and a renal biopsy.
20328	Diagnosis is done through MRI scanning and histological examination
20329	Diagnosis as typical of genetically acquired conditions is based on family history as well as physical observations; patients with the condition are generally shorter (dwarfism) with short limbs with other skeletal abnormalities such as enlarged joints, very short hands and fingers, with distinct facial features such as protruding eyes; sunken nasal bridge; upturned nose with a rounded tip; and small lower jaw. Some are born with cleft palates.
20330	Diagnosis includes undergoing abdominal X-ray, Barium Enema, Manometry, Rectal Suction Biopsy and Full-thickness Biopsy.
20331	Megalencephaly can be diagnosed on the basis of clinical findings and results of standard imaging studies such as CT (computed tomography) scans or MRI (magnetic resonance imaging) scans.
20332	Diagnosis is made through medical examination a traditional blood test. The Schilling test is also performed which determines the patient's ability to absorb vitamin B12.
20333	Diagnosis would have to be accurate enough to differentiate the distinctive spasms and movements of the disorder as differentiated from other similar conditions. Distinctions to look for as characteristic of the disease include forceful blinking in accompaniment to grimacing and aggressive chin thrusting; interactive movement between oral and eye movements.
20334	Diagnosis includes physical examination of a dermatologist. In cases of eye melanoma, an eye examination is required inasmuch as the melanoma in the eyes do not have any symptoms and may only be detected through such.
20335	Effective diagnosis means detecting suspicious looking moles that have distinctive and often times changing colors or shapes. After visual examination, there should be a dermatoscopic exam and possibly a biopsy. If it has been found to be malignant, immediate incision is recommended.
20336	To biopsy certain lesions, such as new ones, large or growing ones, or those with irregular color (pigmentation) may be needed by your doctor in order to dignose oral melatonic macule. It can also help the doctor tell whether it is a benign oral melatonic macule or a malignant melanoma, a type of skin cancer.
20337	Diagnosis is based on numerous indicators one of which is finding out the cause of lactic acidosis as MELAS sufferers tend to build-up lactic acid which causes the vomiting, fatigue, muscle weakness and abdominal pain. Another diagnostic indicator are the stroke-like episodes which is the distinctive feature of the disorder.
20338	It is through skin examination that doctors may be able to diagnose melasma, because it is common and has a characteristic appearance on the face, and occasionally, a skin biopsy is necessary to differentiate melasma from other conditions.
20339	In diagnosing meleda diseases, care must be given to differentiate it from other hyperkeratotic conditions with similar symptoms such as psoriasis, lichen planus and icthyosis.
20340	Diagnosis for melioidosis once suspicion of its origin is confirmed can be made definitively by making a culture from any clinical sample and identifying the organism.
20341	Diagnosis of the syndrome is usually made by identifying 1 or 2 variants, the most frequently occurring being Granulomatous cheilitis of Miescher (GC). Another marker to look for is orofacial edema which has been found in about half of the cases.
20342	Memory loss can be diagnosed via observations and physical examination, or psychoanalysis.
20343	There are no diagnostic steps necessary to determine menarche.
20344	For diagnosis, the disease can be effectively diagnosed by x-ray (rare) or through an endoscopy and biopsy of the stomach
20345	Diagnosis for meninges cancer typically starts with a physical examination that reveals distinct abnormalities. To confirm the diagnosis, imaging studies such as magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and computerized tomography (CT) scans are done to detect potentially malignant growths in the meninges.
20346	Diagnosis is done through contrast CT, MRI and arteriography.
20347	Diagnosis can be established with the present symptoms as well as physical examination. Tests can also be conclusively established with lumbar puncture, CSF analysis, blood tests (electrolytes, liver and kidney function, inflammatory markers and a complete blood count) and X-ray of the chest.
20348	The disease can be diagnosed by CT scan images.
20349	Diagnosis is confirmed through a blood culture.
20350	Diagnosis is usually achieved by testing the mother's blood or what you call AFP Screening during pregnancy to see if there are defects with the neural tube. A fetal ultrasound is also used.
20351	Patients undergo blood tests to confirm meningococcemia and to rule out other infections. Other tests may also be done such as lumbar puncture to obtain spinal fluid sample for CSF culture, skin biopsy, and gram stain Urinalysis.
20352	Diagnosis is usually achieved by testing the mother's blood or what you call AFP Screening during pregnancy to see if there are defects with the neural tube. A fetal ultrasound is also used.
20354	Diagnosis includes physical examination, undergoing X-ray of the knee and MRI.
20355	Menkes disease may be diagnosed based on laboratory tests showing low serum copper levels, as well as imaging studies that reveal various white matter dysmyelination, atrophy, tortuous blood vessels, subdural hematomas, and other associated anomalies.
20356	Menopuase tends to occur about the same time as your mother's. The age, history of menstrual periods and symptoms provide additional clues. Results of your pelvic exam, The vagina will be dryer and may show visual signs of thinning wall tissue.
20357	Blood tests a sample of your blood is evaluated in case excessive blood loss during menstruation has made you anemic. Pap test the doctor collects cells from your cervix for microscopic examination to detect infection, inflammation or changes that may be cancerous or may lead to cancer. Endometrial biopsy doctor will take a sample of tissue from the inside of your uterus to be examined under a microscope. Ultrasound scan imaging method uses sound waves to produce images of your uterus, ovaries and pelvis.
20358	The patient also undergoes a physical examination and a review of his or her medical history. The doctor may also perform a pelvic exam to check for any abnormalities in the reproductive organs or indications of infection. The doctor may also request diagnostic tests such as imaging tests, laparoscopy, or hysteroscopy to rule out other causes.
20359	There is an intellectual criteria for establishing that a person has developmental disability although the accepted standard to qualify is an intelligence quotient of 70 or below. Assessment is done by qualified professionals.
20360	Diagnostic steps for meralgia parenthetica may include a physical examination and standard imaging tests to determine the extent of damage.
20361	Diagnosis for meralgia paresthetica (burning thigh pain) is based on physical examination and medical history. To rule out other conditions, X-ray imaging, an electromyography (ECG), and nerve conduction study may also be done.
20362	Merasmus is usually determined secondary to the diagnosis of certain underlying conditions. For example, anorexia nervosa and other types of eating disorders usually list merasmus as a symptom and/or complication. In general, no diagnostic tests are necessary beyond the initial clinical evaluation.
20363	Diagnosis is made on the symptoms present as well as clinical investigation on the source of the exposure.
20364	To determine Merkel cell cancer, a physical exam may be done to look for abnormal freckles, moles, pigmentations or growths on the patient's skin. To confirm the diagnosis, a biopsy may be performed to microscopically examine the affected tissue. A sentinel node biopsy may also be recommended to determine the extent of the disease and to ascertain if the cancer has spread beyond the skin. Additional diagnostic tests include a chest X-ray and a CT (computerized tomography) scan to determine other areas of the body affected with the cancer.
20365	Diagnosis means having the physician ruling out other conditions with the same symptoms; in this regard, general health, medical history, and symptoms will be examined. A physical examination will be made followed by other appropriate tests such as blood tests, angiogram, CT and MRI scans and Doppler ultrasound
20366	Diagnosis is made through the uses of laboratory examinations such as blood testing and imaging studies like the computerized tomography scan, CT Scan for brevity.
20367	Diagnosing the condition is difficult because the symptoms are similar to a lot of other conditions, but knowledge of one's medical history is important as it will reveal whether there was indeed exposure. Standard physical examinations and x-ray will reveal extent of the condition.
20368	Diagnosis can be definitely made through Arterial blood gas sampling
20369	Since there are many types of metabolic disorders, it cannot be diagnosed easily. The symptoms may also be similar with those of common diseases. To properly determine the symptoms as those caused by metabolic disorders, patients are evaluated in a number of ways, including neurological assessments, testing blood and urine, genetic counseling, Magnetic Resonance Imaging, MR SpectroscopySpinal Tap, or Electromyogram.
20370	In clinical diagnosis, a physician may not necessarily look for a "metabolic syndrome" per se, but the term may apply if a patient exhibits three or more of the symptoms associated with this cluster of disorders. In addition, the following indicative signs or guidelines are also used in diagnosing the syndrome: elevated waist circumference; elevated level of triglycerides; reduced HDL; elevated blood pressure; and elevated fasting blood sugar (blood glucose).
20371	Diagnosis is usually accomplished by using two major definitions as given by the International Diabetes Federation and the revised National Cholesterol Education Program. Both provide guidelines in diagnosing individuals who may have the disorder.
20373	Following a physical exam, any or a combination of the following tests may be used to diagnose metachromatic leukodystrophy: blood and urine tests; magnetic resonance imaging (MRI); as well as psychological and cognitive tests.
20374	Because cells in metastatic tumor resemble those in the primary tumor, a microscope analysis of a sample from the cancerous tissue will usually determine where the tumor was originally located. Other diagnostic tests involved in assessing metastatic cancer are imaging studies such as CT scans and MRI scans.
20375	Specialists suspect skeletal dysplasia in a patient's obvious physical features such as an unusual configuration of the face or the shape of the skull or an obviously affected parent. Patients may also undergo bone x-rays, however they are not key to a definite diagnosis. Patients are referred to a genetics clinic to confirm diagnosis and for genetic counseling.
20376	Blood tests can reveal elevated methemoglobin levels in blood.
20377	Doctors diagnose MRSA by checking a tissue sample or nasal secretions for signs of drug-resistant bacteria.
20378	Diagnosis is accomplished through testing at the newborn stage because screening at this crucial period with accompanying treatment has been shown to be significantly effective. Laboratory tests as tools to diagnose can range from an ammonia test to Methylmalonic acid blood test and Plasma amino acid test.
20380	In Mevalonic aciduria, mevalonic acid accumulates, which results from the mevalonate kinase deficiency. The accumulated mevalonic acid is detected in the urine.
20383	The fetus may be diagnosed for microcephaly before birth through ultrasound, which my show the disorder until the third trimester. An infant may also be diagnosed by measuring the head and compare its size with a scale that identifies normal and abnormal sizes. Older babies and children may be diagnosed based on family or medical history.
20387	The patient's stool is cultured to rule out other infectious causes of the watery diarrhea. A specialist may be referred who performs either a colonoscopy or a flexible sigmoidoscopy rule out other conditions and make a definitive diagnosis of collagenous colitis or lymphocytic colitis. Colon biopsies may also be performed as part of the diagnostic tests. Collagenous colitis shows increased thickness of a nonelastic, protein band of connective tissue in the colon lining. Lymphocytic colitis reveals increased level of specialized white blood cells between the cells that line the large intestine.
20388	Diagnosis is made through the use of Imaging tests like the CT Scan, MRI and X-rays and the use of the procedure called Cystoscopy.
20389	Urine specimen is analyzed to check any development or progression that may show signs that the kidney or kidneys are affected. A tissue specimen from the affected organ may also be taken for biopsy. The patient undergoes laboratory tests to determine ANCA levels in the blood.
20390	Doctors perfom biopsies on samples of affected tissues.
20391	Surgeons first determine whether the patient has normal hearing with intact inner ear. If hearing is normal, but the ear canal cannot be seen external, the patient undergoes a CT scan to determine the existence of the canal.
20392	Doctors diagnose the disease through biopsy of the small intestine, the result of which is dependent on electron microscopy.
20393	Migraine is diagnosed based on the number and frequency of attacks, the duration, the location and intensity of pain, or nausea and vomiting as well as increased sensitivity to light and noise.
20393	If the headaches are unusual, severe or sudden, your doctor may recommend a variety of tests to rule out other possible causes for your pain.
20394	Diagnosis includes examination of family history, physical examination, eye examination by an opthalmologists and the use of CT Scan and MRI.
20395	The condition is suspected as a form of Sjogren syndrome and usually diagnosed in middle-aged and elderly women.
20397	Diagnosis may include tests of memory and behavior, examination of medical history and neuropsychological testing.
20398	The presence of Milia is easily confirmed through the thorough examination of the infant's skin.
20400	Diagnosis is based on the initial signs and symptoms after exposure of consumption of milk and milk products. Skin and blood tests may be conducted to confirm initial findings.
20401	Doctors diagnose the condition based on the rapid development of symptoms particularly muscle paralysis. Electromyography and nerve conduction study may be conducted to check for abnormalities, which may include prolonged distal latencies, conduction slowing, or conduction block.
20402	The patient is tested for microdeletion using cytogenetic techniques.
20403	Confirmation of the presence of heat rash or milliaria is often through thorough examination of the skin and focusing more on the symptoms.
20404	Most forms of mineral deficiency can be determined through laboratory testing of urine samples, blood plasma, and red blood cells.
20405	Needle biopsy is needed to test blood serum to confirm if protenuria is present in the patient.
20406	Peripheral blood smear microscopy to identify presence of fragments of the red blood cells.
20407	Diagnosis of mitochondrial disease can be invasive, expensive, time-consuming, and labor-intensive. Doctors experienced during the diagnosis and treating these diseases will take either a step-wise approach to diagnosis in some centers, the evaluation takes place over a few days.
20408	In invaluating individuals suspected with mitochondrial diseases, doctors make clinical observations and patients undergo laboratory tests. Because diagnosing the disease is not taken lightly by specialists, diagnosis can be consume a lot of both the patient and doctor's time, thus expensive and also invasive.
20409	Mitochondrial trifunctional protein deficiency is diagnosed and confirmed through tandem mass spectrometry.
20411	The most useful method to diagnose a prolapsed mitral valve is echocardiography. Two and three-dimensional echocardiography provide images of the mitral leaflets relative to the mitral annulus. With this, measurement of the leaflet thickness and their displacement relative to the annulus is possible.
20412	Physicians examine patients through echocardiography, which visualizes the mitral leaflets relative to the mitral annulus. This procedure helps in the measurement of the leaflet thickness and their displacement relative to the annulus. Mitral valve leaflets with >5 mm thickness and >2 mm leaflet displacement indicates a classic mitral valve prolapse.
20414	Diagnosis includes undergoing echocardiogram, chest x-ray, electrocardiogram or the ECG, Holter Monitor, cardiac catheterization and transesophageal echocardiogram.
20415	Diagnosis includes undergoing to echocardiogram, electrocardiogram or ECG, Holter monitoring, chest X-ray and cardiac catheterization.
20416	Confirmation of the medical condition is made through focusing more on the symptoms and taking note of its timing to rule out other medical conditions like dysmenorrhea.
20417	Diagnosis of MCTD may include blood tests to detect an antibody to ribonucleoprotein. Symptoms from lupus, scleroderma, polymyositis, or rheumatoid arthritis can also make doctors suspect MCTD in patients.
20418	Infants with mobious syndrome can be identified at birth. A mask-like expression, known as bilateral facial palsy, is usually detected during crying or laughing. This is due to paresis of the sixth and seventh cranial nerves.
20419	MODY diagnosis is often accidentally discovered during routine urine and blood tests for unrelated reasons. The only definite diagnostic test to confirm MODY diabetes to date is genetic testing.
20420	Specific gene testing, which is available through a couple of commercial laboratories, is the only way to confirm the diagnosis of MODY.
20421	Infants with moebius syndrome can be identified at birth. A mask-like expression, called bilateral facial palsy, is usually detected during crying or laughing. This is caused by paresis of the sixth and seventh cranial nerves.
20422	The disease is diagnosed by conducting hemoglobin A1C tests to detect diabetes, as well as thyroid-stimulating hormone test to search for thyroiditis. It can also be diagnosed by looking for anti-GAD antibodies.
20424	Diagnosis will be based on the symptoms as well ass family history of allergies. A skin test may also help identify all allergens that can trigger an allergic reaction.
20426	Diagnosis includes physical examination of the mole and take a sample of the tissue of the person's mole to determine if its cancerous or not. If the mole is suspected to be cancerous then a biopsy may also be used to confirm the condition.
20427	A physical examination can diagnose the condition but unclear results may bring health professionals to take a sample of the bump and conduct a biopsy. Physicians may also check for other STDs such as herpes if the bumps are found on the genital area.
20428	Mondini's dysplasia may be explained through pathologic findings in the inner or middle ears, including the dysgenesis of the end organs and associated neural elements, which are sufficient to cause a sensorineural hearing loss.
20429	Conducting an ultrasonography may present a tubular and hypoechoic structure corresponding to the thrombosed vein.
20430	Clinical diagnosis of Monge's disease by laboratory show indicators have ranges of HHb > 200 g/L, Hct >65%, and arterial oxygen saturation (SaO2) <85% in both genders.
20431	Light microscopy with macroscopic examination aids in diagnosis. Those who have the disease may have hair nodes that have the diameter of normal hair and are medullated but the internodes don't medulla and are the sites of fracture. Scanning electron microscopy may also reveal useful findings. Dermoscopy can also be used as a rapid diagnosis for monilethrix where hair shafts may be shown with uniform elliptical nodes and intermittent constrictions. Hairs are found to have a tendency to fracture at constriction sites.
20433	Rash develops into raised bumps filled with fluid and often starts on the face and spreads, but it can start on other parts of the body too. The bumps go through several stages before it get crusty, scab over, and fall off. The illness usually lasts 2 to 4 weeks.
20434	A blood test for another condition usually makes way for the discovery of the disease. The test is actually called serum proteins electrophoresis (SPEP) in which blood proteins are separated into five parts and can show abnormalities. If MGUS is detected, further tests such as blood tests, x-rays, and a bone marrow test may be conducted.
20435	Diagnostic tests for monomelic amyotrophy include: a thorough medical exam; medical history; electromyography or EMG; as well as standard imaging studies such as magnetic resonance imaging (EMG) and computer computed tomography (CT) scan.
20436	Diagnosis of the disorder involves exams and tests that contain detailed history to determine the possible causes. Neuromuscular testing and examination may present a specific loss of sensation and movement associated with dysfunction of specific nerves. Reflexes may also be found to be abnormal.
20437	Monospot test may be done to check your blood for antibodies to the Epstein-Barr virus. This screening test provides results within a day. But it could not detect the infection during the first week of the illness.
20438	Diagnosis of morning sickness begins with a history and physical exam. Urinalysis could be done, as well as blood tests to check for dehydration.
20439	Confirmation of the condition may be made through physical examination and tissue sample for biopsy.
20440	Physical examination may reveal abnormal curving of the spine or kyphoscoliosis, cloudy cornea, heart murmur, inquinal hernia, liver enlargement, loss of nerve function below the neck and short physique. Other tests may also be composed of blood culture, echocardiogram, genetic testing, hearing test, slit-lamp eye exam, skin fibrolast culture, and x-rays of the long bones, ribs and spine.
20441	Physical examination may expose abnormal curvature of the spine or kyphoscoliosis, cloudy cornea, heart murmur, inquinal hernia, liver enlargement, loss of nerve function below the neck and short stature. Other tests may comprise of blood culture, echocardiogram, genetic testing, hearing test, slit-lamp eye exam, skin fibrolast culture and x-rays of the long bones, ribs and spine.
20442	Physical examination may reveal abnormal curvature of the spine or kyphoscoliosis, cloudy cornea, heart murmur, inquinal hernia, liver enlargement, loss of nerve function below the neck and short stature. Other tests may also include blood culture, echocardiogram, genetic testing, hearing test, slit-lamp eye exam, skin fibrolast culture and x-rays of the long bones, ribs and spine.
20443	Diagnosis includes physical examination and x-ray of the foot affected.
20444	The disease can be diagnosed by observation of the symptoms exhibited by the patient.
20446	Most people who have experienced motion sickness in the past ask their health care provider how to prevent another episode from occurring in the future. Not usual that an individual arrive at his or her health care provider's office actually experiencing motion sickness.
20447	When conducting microscopic examination, neurons may show spongiosis as well as presence of astrocytes, and a number of "skein-like" inclusions, bunina bodies, and vacuolization. Diagnostic criteria called El Escorial have also been defined by the World Federation of Neurologists for use in research relevant to the disease.
20448	Genetic testing is a definitive diagnosis not only for a specific type of CMT but also for most types. Some genetic markers however have not yet been identified. A diagnosis can also be established via an electromyography examination and nerve biopsy. The former can show that the velocity of nerve impulse conduction is decreased and the time required to charge the nerve is increased.
20449	Appropriate clinical settings show that Mounier-Kuhn is diagnosed in women though chest radiographs. A computed tomography can easily confirm the diagnosis of the disorder.
20451	Diagnosis is made through biopsy, x-ray, Computerized Tomography or CT Scan, ultrasound and the use of Magnetic resonance imaging or the MRI Scan.
20452	A mouth ulcer can usually be diagnosed from its appearance and location in the patient's mouth. No other diagnostic workup is necessary.
20453	CT, MRI, or an angiogram are initially suggested for the diagnosis of the disease. The angiographic image of the disease reveals a "puff of smoke," which is moyamoya in Japanese, thus the name. Contrast T1-weighted images however are better than FLAIR images for depicting the leptomeningeal ivy sign in moyamoya disease. For further diagnosis and follow up MRI and MRA should be performed. The decreased blood and oxygen supply to areas of the brain can be demonstrated through single photon emission computerized tomography or SPECT, a procedure in nuclear medicine.
20455	Diagnosis of the disorder is often made either radiologically or laparoscopically among patients whom hormonal and karyotypic investigations for primary amenorrhea are normal.
20456	Diagnostic criteria are purely clinical but genetic diagnosis is considered currently feasible. There are only moderate non-specific signs of inflammation during the course of inflammatory attacks associated to the disorder. Biochemical analyses may be useful to exclude certain diseases that can be considered as a function of the clinical signs present.
20458	Diagnosis includes physical examination and undergoing several tests like urine tests, blood tests, electrocardiogram and echocardiogram.
20459	Determining the specific enzymatic activity in cultured fibrolasts or leukocytes aids in the diagnosis of the disorder. It also possible to perform prenatal diagnosis using cultured amniocytes or chorionic villi.
20460	CT scans as well as imaging studies can aid in the diagnosis of the disorder.
20461	Unusual curvature of the spine or kyphoscoliosis, cloudy cornea, heart murmur, inquinal hernia, liver enlargement, loss of nerve function below the neck and short stature may be revealed through a physical examination. Blood culture, echocardiogram, genetic testing, hearing test, slit-lamp eye exam, skin fibrolast culture and x-rays of the long bones, ribs and spine are also possible tests.
20462	Clinical examination and conducting enzyme assays can provide definitive diagnosis of the disease.
20463	The first step in diagnosing the disease is thru a urine test since it may show extra mucolopolysaccharides.
20464	Physical examination may reveal signs of aortic regurgitation, hearing loss, inguinal or umbilical hernia, liver swelling. Eye exam and urine tests are also conducted to come up with a definitive diagnosis.
20465	Laboratory tests or screening such as urine test for GAG. The most definitive procedure though is by measuring l2S activity in serum, white blood cells, or fibroblasts from skin biopsy. Prenatal diagnosis is also routinely available.
20466	A child's appearance along with other symptoms such as an enlarged spleen and ivory-colored skin lesions can suggest the presence of the disease. Elaprase is also on the process of being approved both in the U.S. FDA and in the European Medicines agency (EMEA).
20467	Unusual curvature of the spine or kyphoscoliosis, cloudy cornea, heart murmur, inquinal hernia, liver enlargement, loss of nerve function below the neck and short stature may be revealed through a physical examination. Blood culture, echocardiogram, genetic testing, hearing test, slit-lamp eye exam, skin fibrolast culture and x-rays of the long bones, ribs and spine are also possible tests.
20469	Examining the granulocytes for coarse metachromatic inclusions as well skeletal radiographs help diagnose the disease.
20470	As swabs of tissue or discharge are generally unreliable, the diagnosis of mucormycosis tends to be established by a biopsy specimen of the involved tissue. Computerized imaging techniques such as MRIs, CT scans and X-rays may be useful in the diagnosis of specific areas.[3][9] Differentials to consider in diagnosis of the infection include anthrax, aspergillosis and cellulitis.
20471	Studies conducted state that clinical diagnosis of the disease during the first few months of life is a challenge. This is because among infants, intrauterine growth failure is a heterogenous group and the facial features are not unique to the group.
20472	Diagnosis of the disorder is often made with either radiologically or laparoscopically among patients whom hormonal and karyotypic investigations for primary amenorrhea are normal.
20473	Multi-infract dementia can be suspected based on evident symptoms such as irregular cardiac activity or complete occlusion of the major vessels leading to the brain. A cerebral computerized tomography (CT) scan of the brain is often necessary in confirming a multi-infarct dementia diagnosis.
20474	History states that patients report "skipped beats," pauses or palpitations. Physical exams will manifest an S1 occurring earlier than expected. Conducting an ECG or a TMT will provide a definitive diagnosis of the disorder. Other patients may wear a Holter monitor or an event monitor to record PVCs outside a doctor's clinic.
20475	Identifying and treating all other conditions present that may have caused related symptoms is the first step in diagnosing a potential MCS patient. There is also the so-called "gold standard" procedure to identify a person with MCS. This tests the patient's response to a random introduction of chemicals that he or she has identified as relevant. Responses are classified to either subjective or objective. MCS diagnosis can only be justified when a subject cannot consciously distinguish between chemicals and controls.
20476	Depending on the clinical appearance, a skin biopsy may or may not be required. Skin findings may be used to aid in establishing the diagnosis of MEN1.
20477	The disease is clinically diagnosed by the occurrence of two or more specific endocrine tumors in a single individual or in close relatives.
20478	Diagnosing HME is based on clinical and/or radiographic findings of multiple exostoses in one or more members of the family.
20479	Further testing is prompted for the presence of anemia, kidney dysfunction, high erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR) and high serum protein. Some doctors may request protein electrophoresis of the blood and urine. Diagnostic criteria were agreed upon in 2003 for symptomatic myeloma, asymptomatic myeloma and monoclonal gammopathy of undetermined significance (MGUS).
20480	In 1994 the European Society of Intensive Care created the "Sepis-Related Organ Failure Assessment (SOFA)" score to describe and quantify the degree of organ dysfunction in six organ systems. Four clinical phases have been suggested to aid in the diagnosis of the disorder.
20481	Diagnosis is made through the examination of the signs and symptoms including the review of the patient's personal history.
20482	MS diagnosis should be based on objective evidence of two or more neurologic signs that are localized to the brain or spinal cord and are disseminated in time and space. During or following a first attack, magnetic resonance imaging with gadolinium contrast can be helpful in providing evidence of lesions in other parts of the brain and spinal cord.
20483	Urinary incontinence among females and erectile dysnfunction among males are the first noticeable characteristics of MSA and upon examination, orthostatic hypotension may be discovered. The symptoms of MSA are sometimes mistaken with Parkinson's disease but one clue to identify the difference is the fact that those with MSA do not respond well to levodopa. Presently, the only definitive way of diagnosing MSA is during autopsy after death.
20484	During the infection, several non-specific findings may be present in the blood. WBC may be low, showing predominating lymphocytes. CFT is the most widely used procedure for the diagnosis of mumps. Other tests include neutralization, SRH, HAI, Solid phase ELISA or RIA as well as virus isolation.
20485	The dishonesty on the affected person's part makes diagnosing Munchausen syndrome difficult. Doctors who do not find physical reasons for the symptoms refer patients to a psychologist or psychiatrist.
20486	A Murray Valley encephalitis virus infection is determined through a blood specimen analysis showing a significant increase in antibodies specific to the virus. MVEV can also be cultured and isolated in clinical material for laboratory testing.
20487	Muscle contraction headache can be diagnosed based on the patient's medical history, physical symptoms, and the results of a thorough physical exam.
20488	Cramps appear occasionally, cease on their own, and do not require medical treatment. But if they are frequent and severe, they must be seen by a doctor.
20489	To be diagnosed as muscle dysmorphic, the person must exhibit symptoms of the type and degree outlined in the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual for body dysmorphic disorder, and not merely appear over-interested in physique or engage in behaviors other people would find unwise. Muscle dysmorphia is fairly rare and not just an obsession with working out. Bodybuilding does not satisfy the criteria of a body dysmorphic disorder.
20490	Diagnosis is made through physical examination which will often reveal a swollen or even bleeding part of the joint or muscle. An X-ray and MRI may also be used to confirm the injury and its extent.
20491	Results of a muscle biopsy are the basis for the diagnosis of muscular dystrophy. A DNA blood test may be all that is needed in some cases though.
20492	A CPK test, DNA test, muscle biopsy, and prenatal tests are the typical procedures related to the diagnosis of DMD.
20493	A test that can measure the size of the D4Z4 deletions on 4q35 has become a preferred mechanism since 2000 but the test is very expensive that is why many physicians still rely on CK tests, electromyogram, nerve conduction velocity, and muscle biopsy.
20494	There is currently no accepted conclusive test or series of tests of CFS. It is therefore considered largely an exclusionary diagnosis and if a doctor suspects that a patient is suffering from the disorder, eliminating other potential causes of the syndrome is necessary.
20495	It can be difficult to diagnose MG since the symptoms can be subtle and hard to distinguish from both normal variants and other neurological disorders. Easy fatiguability can be revealed though a thorough physical examination. A suspected diagnosis may require a serology in a blood test. This will help identify antibodies against the acetylcholine receptor.
20496	It can be difficult to diagnose MG because the symptoms can be understated and hard to identify from both normal variants and other neurological disorders. Easy fatigability can be detected through a thorough physical examination. An assumed diagnosis may require a blood test serology. This will aid in identifying antibodies against the acetylcholine receptor.
20497	Diagnosis is done by using ultrasound, radiology or fine-needle aspiration of fluid within the affected body part.
20498	Laboratory analysis of cultures of blood or other bodily fluids is usually sufficient to diagnose mycobacterium avium complex diseases.
20499	Mycoplasma pneumoniae infections can be diagnosed based on: a physical exam; positive blood test showing cold-hemagglutinins; absence of bacteria in a gram-stained sputum sample; laboratory workup showing a lack of growth on blood agar; and imaging through X-ray.
20501	It can be quite difficult to diagnose this condition during its early stages because it appears like eczema or psoriasis. However, it is best to pursue in seeking medical help and opinions. Clinical examination and evaluation is a medical routine for mycosis fungoides. Skin biopsy is done to confirm diagnosis. Several tests may be performed to check nodes, internal organs and blood.
20502	It can be quite difficult to diagnose this condition during its early stages because it appears like eczema or psoriasis. However, it is best to pursue in seeking medical help and opinions. Clinical examination and evaluation is a medical routine for mycosis fungoides lymphoma. Skin biopsy is done to confirm diagnosis. Several tests may be performed to check nodes, internal organs and blood.
20503	This condition, if not urgently treated, can result to irreversible damages to the spinal cord. The progression can be very rapid. It requires aggressive and urgent treatment. Diagnosis is usually supported by several diagnostic procedures. Doctors may request for MRI (Magnetic Resonance Imaging) to determine extent of inflammation. Lumbar puncture or spinal tap is also done to test the spinal fluid for viruses. The patient may also have several blood tests.
20504	Diagnosis for myelodysplasia is established by laboratory procedures such as full blood count and blood tests. Bone marrow examination is also performed by a hematopathologist. Cytogenetics may also be performed on the bone marrow aspirate. Flow cytometry is also helpful to check disorders in the bone marrow.
20505	Diagnosis for myelodysplastic syndromes is established by laboratory procedures such as full blood count and blood tests. Bone marrow examination is also performed by a hematopathologist. Cytogenetics may also be performed on the bone marrow aspirate. Flow cytometry is also helpful to check disorders in the bone marrow.
20506	Diagnosis depend on Normochromic mormocytic anemia, red cell poikilocytosis on blood film, JAK 2 mutation on Val 617 Phe locus in 50%, raised neutrophil alkaline phosphatase score and lactate dehydrogenase. Biopsy of the bone marrow may also present increase in cellularity and fibrosis.
20507	A blood test called serum protein electrophoresis separates your blood proteins and can detect the presence of M proteins, called an "M spike," in your blood. Doctor can conduct other blood tests to check for beta2-microglobulin
20508	Diagnosis includes prenatal screening test, blood tests, ultrasound and amnicotesis to known the levels of AFT in the blood.
20512	Diagnosis includes undergoing Electrocardiogram or ECG, blood testing, X-ray and nuclear scan.
20513	Electrocardiographic (ECG) results, elevated CRP, and/or ESR and increased IgM are the basis for suspecting the presence of myocardial inflammation. High levels of troponin or creatine kinase cardiac isoenzymes are indicative of myocardial damage. The most recommended diagnostic tool for myocarditis is still biopsy of myocardium, typically done in an angiography setting. Small samples of endocardium and myocardium tissues are taken and analyzed by pathologists through light microscopy as well as immunochemistry and special staining methods. A recent development in medical technology is the use of cardiac magnetic resonance imaging (cMRI or CMR) to detect visual markers for myocardium inflammation.
20515	The primary diagnostic tools used for determining myoclonus epilepsy are electroencephalography (EEG) to record the brain's electrical activity and electromyography (EMG) to measure the muscles' electrical charges. Other tests that may be done include: body imaging; cerebrospinal fluid exam; tests for malabsorption disorders; blood and urine tests; as well as genetic tests to check for possible gene dysfunction.
20516	Confirmation of the medical condition includes undergoing physical examinations where the doctor will check the trigger points of the patient.
20517	The most important diagnostic tool to determine myoglobinuria is a lab test to measure CK levels to assess for rhabdomyolysis or muscle damage. While myoglobin levels are the first to increase, the enzyme rapidly returns to normal because they are excreted through the urine. Blood CK levels, on the other hand, may remain high after urine tests for myoglobin turn out negative. Serum CK levels increase within 3 days after the onset of symptoms, and remain high for several days after. Thus, it is a more useful marker of rhabdomyolysis.
20518	Diagnosis is made through undergoing ultrasound, imaging tests such as the hysterosonography, hysterosalpingography, hysteroscopy, computerized tomography or CT Scan, the magnetic resonance imaging or the MRI and for some cases the doctor may also advise for the complete blood count or the CBC in order to determine anemia due to chronic blood loss.
20519	Myopathy can be determined in any one of a number of lab studies - including screening for CK with isoenzymes, electrolytes, calcium, magnesium, serum myoglobin, serum creatinine and BUN. Other tests include a urinalysis to determine myoglobinuria, complete blood count, erythrocyte sedimentation rate, thyroid function tests, and AST.
20520	A neurologist coordinates the diagnostic test done on a patient with myotubalr myopathy. Genetic testing is required because muscle biopsy analysis is not reliable to determine the condition. Even after a patient's death due to the condition, information from muscle biopsy and genetic testing can help the affected family with family planning and genetic counseling. The information would also guide in the accurate diagnosis of relatives carrying the abnormal gene.
20521	CNM can be determined through Electrodiagnostic Testing (also known as electrophysiologic), which encompasses nerve conduction studies. This process basically stimulates a peripheral motor or sensory nerve and records the response. In needle electromyography, the muscle is inserted with a thin needle or pin-like electrode to assess for abnormal electrical activities. This method can help differentiate between myopathies and neuropathies; the findings of which can help determine the consequent course of treatment. While electrodiagnostic results do make a distinction between neuropathy and myopathy, they are not effective in terms of identifying the specific type of myopathy present. In this regard, a muscle biopsy and perhaps even genetic testing are helpful.
20522	An eye examination done by an optometrist or ophthalmologist usually confirms a diagnosis of myopia. A retinoscope or an autorefractor is used to generate an initial evaluation of the refractive capabilities of the eye. Later, a phoropter is used to refine the patient's lens prescription.
20523	The degree of myopia occurring in patients is commonly measured by diopters, which are units of measurement that determine the optical power of a lens or curved mirror. A diopter is equivalent to the reciprocal of the focal length in meters. An ophthalmologist or an optometrist can confirm myopia through an eye examination using an autorefractor or retinoscope, and then a phoropter to determine the prescription lens.
20524	Basic clinical signs often lead to diagnosis of myositis. Upon the first signs of indicative symptoms, physicians often conduct further diagnostic tests. Such tests include blood tests to measure muscle enzyme levels, an electromyogram to gauge the electrical activity of muscles, a muscle biopsy, an MRI (magnetic resonance imaging), a standard X-ray, and a CT scan.
20525	In rare cases, myositis ossificans may be asymptomatic. In such scenarios, the condition may be diagnosed through radiographs obtained for unrelated problems. Prior to making a definitive diagnosis, it's imperative for physicians to consider osteogenic carcoma. It's important to distinguish between these two pathologies. Simple radiograph tests will provide some insight.
20526	The characteristics of myositis ossificans progressiva make diagnosis simple via clinical examination and radiology alone.
20527	The condition is diagnosed via genetic testing.
20528	Electrophysiologic or electrodiagnostic testing can be done to help in diagnosis. This process differentiates between myopathies and neuropathies. A muscle biopsy is almost always necessary to examine the nuclear material of the muscle cells.
20530	Your doctor may recommend further testing if the diagnosis is not certain, such as an ultrasound, X-ray, MRI or CT scan.
20532	To determine the nature of skin thickening, a thyroid profile is usually done. This test may also help identify hypothyroidism in conjunction with Naegeli syndrome. An ANA test to determine scleroderma as well as a skin biopsy may also be recommended. In early diagnosis, esophageal motility tests may also help.
20533	Blood tests and brain imaging studies may be done to help rule out other potential causes, such as bacterial meningitis, which closely resemble the symptoms of naegleria infection. A lumbar puncture may be performed, followed by cerebrospinal fluid analysis, to look for the presence of amoebas.
20534	Diagnosis to confirm the Naegleria Infection includes undergoing or having the patient's blood test, imaging tests of the brain and undergoing a lumbar puncture.
20535	A nail that has been dislodged or lifted from its bed can be diagnosed as nail avulsion.
20536	Diagnosis in order to confirm the medical condition includes examination of the nails and then taking some debris from the nail and examining it under a microscope to determine the kind of fungi that causes the condition on the nails which will in turn help in finding the suitable treatment.
20537	Genetic prenatal testing for NPS is currently available only through clinical research focused on this disorder. Even in the context of research, genetic tests cannot specifically pinpoint the signs of the disease, nor gauge the severity of its symptoms. Improved genetic studies are expected in the succeeding years. To date, visual clinical signs of characteristic defects are used in diagnosis. Abnormalities in fingernails and kneecaps are often benchmark medical cues. To confirm NPS diagnosis, x-ray images are often taken of the affected bones. When necessary, a kidney biopsy is conducted.
20538	Nappy rash can be diagnosed by the presence of the symptoms shown by the patient.
20539	Narcissistic personality disorder is diagnosed based on signs and symptoms, as well as a thorough psychological evaluation. Doctor or mental health provider will ask to describe the signs and symptoms that the patient experienced what they are, when they occur, how intense they are and how long they last.
20540	When all the hallmark signs of narcolepsy are present, diagnosis of this disease is relatively easy. However, when sleep attacks and cataplexy are isolated, diagnosis becomes a little more difficult. To screen for narcolepsy, the polysomnogram test and the multiple sleep latency test are often performed by what is known as a sleep specialist. Polysomnogram entails the clinical recording of brain waves while the patient sleeps. Nerve and muscle functions are also closely monitored. Narcoleptic patients usually fall asleep instantly, enter REM sleep earlier than normal, and often wake up for no reason during the night. Through polysomnogram, it is possible to identify all other forms of sleep disorders related to the affliction. In the context of multiple sleep latency, patients are allowed to sleep at 2-hour intervals during normal wake periods. The patient's time in reaching various stages of sleep (i.e. sleep latency) are closely observed and recorded. The aim of this test is to measure the degree of daytime sleepiness and analyze how soon REM sleep begins. Individuals who rapidly fall asleep and enter REM sleep too early are most likely narcoleptic.
20541	Tests commonly used to help in the diagnosis of Narcolepsy-cataplexy are the multiple sleep latency test and polysomnogram. It is easier to diagnose this disorder if all symptoms and manifestations are present.
20542	Diagnosis includes examination of medical history and physical examination of the nasal passages, undergoing computerized tomography or CT Scan and Cystic Fibrosis Tests.
20543	The cancer can be diagnosed by means of endoscopy and MRI.
20544	Diagnosis of nasopharyngeal carcinoma is confirmed by means of the following: * Nasal Endoscopy * Head and Neck CT Scan * Blood test with the objective of determining the level of antibodies against Epstein - Barr virus (EBV). * Chest, abdominal CT scan and bone scans * Biopsy
20545	In order to make the diagnosis of Naxos Disease being a variant of ARVD includes the following: * Right Ventricular Angiography, which is considered to be the gold standard in the diagnosis of all ARVD. * Electrocardiogram (EKG or ECG), which has the ability to record the electrical activity of the heart overtime. * Echocardiography is also called as the ultrasound of the heart. * Cardiac MRI
20546	Diagnosis includes undergoing eye examination with an ophthalmologist and optometrist and and Optician.
20547	Neck cancer may be suspected based on physical symptoms. To confirm the diagnosis, a needle biopsy may be taken of the lesion to obtain histopathologic information.
20548	Diagnosis includes physical examination and undergoing imaging tests such as X-ray, Magnetic resonance imaging or MRI, computerized tomography or CT Scan and electromyography or EMG.
20549	Diagnosis of Necrotizing fasciitis is confirmed by either blood cultures or aspiration of pus from tissue.
20550	Diagnosis is undertaken by sending Cerebrospinal Fluid (CSF) specimen for laboratory identification of the organisms. The organisms are then cultured in the chocolate agar plate before submission to other testing procedures including: oxidase, carbohydrates maltose, sucrose, and glucose test. Once the organism reaches circulation; blood cultures are drawn for the necessary processes that will aid diagnosis.
20553	Diagnosis of neonatal ALD can be made on the basis of observed symptoms, along with a family history and a biochemical test to screen for elevated levels of very long chain fatty acids in samples from plasma, amniocentesis, fibroblasts, or red blood cells.
20557	Neonatal jaundice is diagnosed on the basis of the affected infant's physical manifestations.
20558	Neonatal lupus can be diagnosed through laboratory analysis of maternal serum as well as neonatal serum. Liver function tests and a skin biopsy may also be required. Also vital are imaging studies, including: frequent ultrasonographic monitoring of the fetal heart rate; electrocardiography; and echocardiography.
20559	A history of myasthenia gravis in the mother during pregnancy as well as the symptomatology in the newborn infant can lead to a suspicion of neonatal myasthenia. The diagnosis can be confirmed through maternal electromyography.
20560	The sight of an eye discharge in a newborn is usually sufficient to diagnose neonatal ophthalmitis. Laboratory testing of maternal serum may be done to determine the specific cause of the condition.
20561	Neonatal respiratory distress syndrome can be diagnosed through: blood gas analysis showing low oxygen levels and high acids in body fluids; chest X-rays showing respiratory distress; and lab tests to rule out other possible causes of the symptoms.
20562	There are no specific lab tests to determine tetanus, and diagnosis is mostly based on clinical manifestations and physical symptoms, along with the mother's medical history.
20563	Diagnostic procedures include: CBC, red cell fragility test, reticulocyte count, chemistry panel, urinalysis, flat plate of the abdomen, sedimentation rate, and diagnosis of the signs and symptoms.
20564	Nephritis can be diagnosed on the basis of laboratory tests showing blood cells, protein, and kidney cells in the urine, along with an elevated concentration of metabolic waste products in the blood. Swabs of the throat may also be screened for streptococcal infection. In addition, a small biopsy of sample tissue from the kidney may also help in diagnosis.
20565	Diagnosis is made through biopsy , bone marrow aspiration, imaging tests like X-rays, bone scans, computerized tomography or CT Scans and Magnetic Resonance Imaging or MRI Scans.
20566	Diagnosis is confirmed with performing necessary laboratory tests like the Sulkowitch urine test to investigate calcium level in combination with diagnosing the signs and symptoms present in the patient.
20567	Diagnostic procedures necessary to confirm diagnosis of Nephrogenic Diabetes Insipidus and all types of Diabetes Insipidus are the following: * Urinalysis
20568	Tests to determine nephropathy include: kidney ultrasound; abdominal CT scan; creatinine clearance; IVP; radionuclide cystogram; serum BUN; serum creatinine; urinalysis; and urine culture. More specific diagnostic testing depends on the type of nephropathy involved.
20570	Diagnosis for Nephrotic Syndrome is usually achieved by following some or all of the following diagnostic procedures: * Urinalysis * Comprehensive Metabolic Panel * Cholesterol examination * Electrolytes, Urea, and Creatinine (EUCs) * Kidney biopsy * Autoimmune markers
20571	Imaging studies such as CT scans and MRIs can reveal the presence of a malignant tumor in the brain. In addition, a biopsy of sample tissue can confirm the diagnosis.
20572	A nervous breakdown is not a clinical diagnosis.
20573	Diagnosis includes undergoing several tests including blood tests, spinal tap or lumbar puncture, radiology tests and imaging tests like the MRI, EEG, ECG CT Scan and Positron Emission Tomography or PET scans.
20575	Since neuralgia is a symptom of an underlying disease, its diagnosis is based on detecting the cause of the condition producing the pain.
20576	Diagnosis includes review of medical history of the patient and physical examination as well as close observation of the symptoms as they manifest in the skin of the patient.
20579	Diagnosis for neuritis depends on the particular nerve or nerves affected. Diagnostic steps may include physical examination, imaging studies and possibly a biopsy of sample tissue.
20580	For the purpose of diagnosing Neuroacanthocytosis, the following disorders are taken into account: Huntington's disease, Gilles de la Tourette syndrome, Tardive dyskinesia, Lesch-Nyhan syndrome , Seizures, McLeod syndrome. This diagnostic approach is referred to as differential diagnosis.
20581	Diagnosis of Neuroblastoma is usually confirmed by a neuropathologist. There are also innovative means of detecting Neuroblastoma like mIBG scan (meta-iodobenzylguanidine).
20582	Lab tests to determine neurocysticercosis include: enzyme-linked immunotransfer blot assay; HP10 antigen testing; polymerase chain reaction; stool sample analysis; and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. Imaging studies such as CT scans and MRIs may also be recommended to show signs of cysts and granuloma. An electroencephalography, lumbar puncture, or brain biopsy may also help in diagnosis.
20583	Diagnosis includes the observation and examination of the appearance and observation of the area that is itchy and scratchy. It may also include the use of patch testing and punch biopsy to confirm the presence of the medical condition.
20584	Diagnosis is made through undergoing physical examination, biopsy, X-ray and the use of computerized tomography or CT Scan
20585	The diagnosis of neuroendocrine tumors is based on strong suspicions based on clinical manifestations present in the patient, though appropriate biochemical confirmation is still necessary including: * CT scan * MRI * Ultrasound * Endoscopy * OctreoScan, also called somatostatin receptor scintigraphy (SRS or SSR)
20588	Clinical findings combined with indicated diagnostic procedure like CT scan, X-ray or MRI is essential to arrive at the proper diagnosis of neurofibromatosis.
20590	To rule out neurogenic bladder disorder complete medical history and physical examination is necessary especially nervous system and urinary system assessmnent. Common Diagnostic test that are also useful in diagnosing this disease like X-ray of the skull and spine and electroencephalogram (EEG) to record brain's electrical activities.
20591	To rule out neurogenic bladder disorder complete medical history and physical examination is necessary especially nervous system and urinary system assessmnent. Common Diagnostic test that are also useful in diagnosing this disease like X-ray of the skull and spine and electroencephalogram (EEG) to record brain's electrical activities.
20592	Clinical manifestations combined with increased Creatine Phosphokinase (CPK) level can confirm diagnosis of Neuroleptic Malignant Syndrome.
20593	Neuroma can be diagnosed through imaging studies such as computerized tomography (CT) scans and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) which can reveal an abnormal mass or growths in the brain. In the context of acoustic neuroma, the following diagnostic tests may also prove helpful: hearing test (audiometry); electronystagmography (ENG); and brainstem auditory evoked response (BAER).
20594	Diagnosis to confirm the medical condition of plantar neuroma includes examination of the foot and undergoing X-ray to rule out other injury and problems.
20595	Neuropathic pain can usually be diagnosed based on an interview with the patient, his/her medical history, as well as a physical exam.
20596	Neuropathy does not pertain to a single disease; but rather, a symptom of a number of potential causes which may be difficult to diagnose. A full medical history, a physical exam, blood tests, and a neurological exam may help in diagnosis. In some cases, a biopsy may also be required.
20597	Diagnosis of neurosis is based on an interview with the patient, along with psychoanalytic, psychotherapeutic, cognitive behavioral, or other psychiatric techniques.
20598	Diagnosis of neurotoxic shellfish poisoning is based on clinical presentations with gastrointestinal and neurologic symptoms, along with a recent history of eating shellfish. If available, the ingested fish can be tested for the presence of toxins.
20599	The presence of neurocognitive discrepancies alone are not enough bases to confirm diagnosis of Neurotoxicity syndromes because there are many available substance that can cause this shortage but are not damaging enough to kill neurons.
20600	Low neutrophil counts are detected on full blood count. Usually, some other investigations are required to arrive at the right diagnosis. When the diagnosis is not certain, or serious causes are suspected, bone marrow biopsy is often necessary.
20601	Diagnosis includes physical examination of the mole and take a sample of the tissue of the person's mole to determine if its cancerous or not. If the mole is suspected to be cancerous then a biopsy may also be used to confirm the condition.
20602	Strong diagnostic criteria includes 1 or more than 2 Basal Cell Carcinomas found in a person below 20 years of age, odontogenic keratocysts of jaw, three of more palmar or plantar pits, falx cerebri calcification, fused, splayed or bifid ribs and a 1st degree relative affected with NBCCS. Other less common diagnostic findings include microcephaly, any form of congenital malformations, skeletal anomalies, ovarian fibroma and medulloblastoma.
20603	A skin examination and the sight of the pigmented area are sufficient to diagnose a nevus.
20607	Diagnostic tests for the disease include serological examinations as well as needle biopsy to study the ulcers.
20608	Diagnosis is mainly based on the symptoms evident on the skin that has come inh contact with nickel.
20609	Diagnosis of nicotine dependence includes the review of the personal history of the patient.
20610	Diagnosis depends on several laboratory tests which include series of blood works. Other diagnostic procedures may be requested by the physician to assess severity of liver and spleen condition.
20611	Diagnosis depends on several laboratory tests which include series of blood works. Other diagnostic procedures may be requested by the physician to assess severity of liver and spleen condition.
20612	Diagnosis depends on several laboratory procedures which include blood works. Other diagnostic procedures may be performed to assess severity of liver and spleen condition.
20613	Diagnosis depends on several laboratory tests which include series of blood works. Other diagnostic procedures may be requested by the physician to assess severity of liver and spleen condition.
20614	Diagnostic tests used to determine night blindness include: general inspection or physical exam; visual acuity; visual field examination; as well as ophthalmoscopy and slit lamp examination.
20615	Diagnosis is done by physical examination of the patient's condition.
20616	Children from age two to six are most prone to night terrors, and they affect about fifteen percent of all children. Some adult night terror sufferers have a lot of the characteristics of abused and depressed individuals including inhibition of aggression.
20617	Aside from early recognition of the clinical characteristics of NBS, laboratory investigations are highly essential to establish the diagnosis.
20618	Tests on the blood serum are used to detect the presence of the disease.
20619	Routine cultures and chest X-rays are usually done.
20620	Nocturia can be diagnosed through the following diagnostic tools: routine laboratory tests; complete blood count; sedimentation rate; urinalysis; chemistry pane; as well as urine culture and sensitivity.
20621	Diagnosis of nocturnal enuresis is made when involuntary urination regularly occurs during sleep in a person who is continent while awake. Knowing the cause for the condition requires a detailed medical history and a comprehensive physical examination.
20622	Diagnosis includes physical examination and undergoing to thyroid function tests, Fine-Needle Aspiration or FNA Biopsy and ultrasonography and thyroid scan.
20623	A person with this condition may not even be aware of the loss, but it can be detected with a hearing test.
20625	Biopsy of the involved tissue is required to completely diagnose a Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma. There are many subtypes for NHL. These subtypes are grouped into three different categories which are based on their aggressiveness or histology. The categories are indolent or low-grade, aggressive or intermediate-grade and highly aggressive or high-grade.
20627	Several laboratory tests and diagnostic procedures are usually performed.
20628	Non-Specific Urethritis is often diagnosed in males only based on microscopic findings of a gram stain from a urethral swab. Evidence of urethritis as well as the absence of gonococci or chlamydia trachomatis infections is usually sufficient to confirm diagnosis.
20629	Diagnosis includes Liver Function tests, ultrasound, magnetic resonance imaging or MRI, X-rays, CT Scan and a biopsy of the liver to know the extent of the condition Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease.
20630	Routine blood tests - to check for liver elevations X-rays Liver biopsy
20631	Diagnosis includes allergy testing, blood testing, and skin tests. Imaging devises such as CT Scan may also be used to confirmed the presence of the Nonallergic Rhinitis.
20632	Diagnosis includes taking into account the medical history of the patient including conducting physical examinations and undergoing a series of tests like blood fas measurement, blood tests and ultrasound.
20633	Diagnosis includes undergoing blood tests and trial of gluten free diet to confirm the presence of disease.
20634	Diagnosis includes physical examinations, undergoing laboratory tests such as blood tests, barium x-ray, endoscopy, ultrasound and gastric emptying study.
20635	The range and extent of severity is significantly variable among NS patients making this syndrome less identifiable at a very early age.
20636	The disease can be diagnosed by CT scan, MRI, and lumbar puncture.
20637	Confirmation of the presence of the infection due to norovirus may be known through identifying the virus under the microscope and through a Reverse Transcriptase Polymerase Chain Reaction Test or the RT-PCR assay test.
20638	Clinical findings combined with molecular genetic testing are used in diagnosing Norrie Disease. Clinical diagnoses of newborns until three months of age, reveal grayish-yellow fibrovascular masses behind the eye. Molecular genetic confirms diagnostic testing, for carrier females, prenatal diagnosis, and preimplantion genetic diagnosis.
20639	Most nasal foreign bodies can be detected through good lighting and a few key instruments. If an object is deeply wedged into the nasal passages, a fiberoptic camera or a CT scan may be considered.
20640	The disease can be diagnosed by physical examination as well as observance of the symptoms.
20641	Diagnosis for nosebleeds usually includes a thorough physical examination. In some cases where underlying conditions are suspected, blood tests and radiological investigations may be recommended.
20642	Nummular eczema can be diagnosed based on the characteristics of the lesions shown by the patient.
20643	Doctors diagnose the condition when the patient's skin prick test with the nut shows a positive result.
20645	Diagnosis includes is usually guided by the criteria spelled out in manuals and guidelines arranged by psychiatric associations. Psychological evaluation are also used to confirm the condition.
20646	Nystagmus is more noticeable, but little recognized. Nystagmus could be clinically investigated by using a number of non-invasive standard tests. One of the simplest is Caloric reflex test. In a caloric reflex test, only external auditory meatus is irrigated with warm or cold water. The temperature gradient arise the stimulation of the vestibulocochlear nerve and the consequent nystagmus.
20647	To diagnose individuals for obesity, doctors evaluate each person's BMI and waist circumference, behaviors like smoking or stressful activities that negatively impacts health, and family and medical history. These factors help the doctors' diagnosis and assessment of implications to respective patients and make recommendations on how to treat the condition.
20648	Obesity in children can be diagnosed by calculating the child's body mass index combined with age-adjusted measurements.
20649	Mental health professionals diagnose an individual as having an obsessive-compulsive disorder when the person exhibits either obsessions or compulsions or both. During episodes of OCD, obsessions are recurrent and persistent thoughts, impulses, or images that cause distress or anxiety to an individual. These obsessions are neutralized or suppressed by the individual through a thought or an action. They behave or act irrationally in response to their obsessions.
20650	The most important test is microscopic examination of a saline and potassium hydroxide preparation. This will diagnose more cases of trichomoniasis and candidiasis.
20651	There is no specific diagnostic test for obstipation. Diagnosis is often made on the basis of the patient's symptoms and medical history.
20652	Obstructive sleep apnea of individuals are diagnosed based on their medical history and lab tests.
20654	Occipital neuralgia can be diagnosed based on the patient's medical history and physical examination results.
20655	Physicians diagnose patients by charting their occupational and clinical history over a period of time, during which symptoms are charted. After charting the patient's history, the patient undergoes certain diagnostic tests such as spirometric tests, peak expiratory flow at work, or Specific Inhalation Challenges. Skin prick tests may also be done to determine allergen reactions.
20656	OCD is common among boys and young men. It is now also becoming common with girls into sports. Specialists conduct MRI or x-ray to check whether the bone is still in its place to determine if the pains are pains are osteochondritis dissecans. If the condition is caught early, the doctor injects a harmless dye into the blood stream, which will show likely area of the calcium build-up. This allows an easier removal process.
20659	Opthalmologists identify the carrier gene from mothers through eye examination that shows irregular patches of pigmentation at the back of their eyes. These mothers may not exhibit ocular albinism. Patients are also diagnosed through eye examination showing light passing through the iris, which results when the iris has very little pigment. Hair roots of patients may also be studied to determine the activity of tyrosinase, which is responsible for converting tyrosine to melanin.
20660	Ocular herpes is diagnosed based on symptoms and clinical presentations.
20661	Diagnosis for ocular histoplasmosis syndrome is done through an ophthalmoscopy, or dilated examination of the retina.
20662	Diagnosis include undergoing ophthalmoscopy, slit-lamo biomicroscopy, ultrasound, angiography and biopsy. CT Scan and MRI may also be used to determine the extent of the ocular melanoma.
20664	Doctors confirm their diagnosis through antibody blood testing.
20665	Oculodentodigital syndrome shows its neurologic abnormalities clearly in adults but may appear earlier in subsequent generations. Iris atrophy and glaucoma are common characteristics in an individual with the condition. The person's eyes usually interfere with reading due to the size.
20666	Oculodentodigital syndrome shows its neurologic abnormalities clearly in adults but may appear earlier in subsequent generations. Iris atrophy and glaucoma are common characteristics in an individual with the condition. The person's eyes usually interfere with reading due to the size.
20668	Affected individuals are diagnosed based on results from genetic testing.
20669	Affected individuals are diagnosed based on results from genetic testing.
20670	Affected individuals are diagnosed based on results from genetic testing.
20671	Oculocutaneous albinism, tyrosinase-positive is diagnosed through hair root studies.
20672	At present, there are no prenatal diagnostic tools to test the condition. Diagnosis based on muscle biopsies, blood tests, and general clinical findings are used to rule out other causes or disorders.
20674	Odontoma is not usually diagnosed because it has no special symptoms. Children may be diagnosed with odontomas due to a dislodged or over-retained primary anterior teeth or swelling of the cortical bone.
20675	A person is diagnosed with odontophobia when he or she frequently feels an unreasonable fear of dentists or dental procedures. The person may panic when exposed to the stimuli or may totally avoid the situation unless it is an emergency. These reactions may cause distress or totally interfere with the person's emotional and social functions.
20677	Edemas can be diagnosed by CT scans and MRI.
20678	Ogilvie's syndrome typically diagnosed in critically ill patients.
20679	An electroencephalogram (EEG) is the primary diagnostic method used to determine Ohtahara syndrome in affected newborns. EEGs of affected infants reveal a pattern known as ?burst suppression?, which is characterized by a high voltage spike followed by little activity in the brain.
20680	The person is exposed to the stimuli and gauged how he or she manifests the fear. Oikophobic persons have different ways of reacting to stimuli although some only react to direct stimuli while others experience fear most of the time.
20682	The patient's medical history and a thorough physical examination are the first steps of oligodendroglioma diagnosis. For a more definite diagnosis, a CT (computerized tomography) scan or an MRI (magnetic resonance imaging) of the brain can help confirm the presence of the tumor inside the brain.
20683	Oligohydramnios is often detected through an ultrasound showing decreased levels of amniotic fluid in the amniotic sac.
20684	A standard sperm count revealing abnormally low amounts of sperm in the semen can lead to a diagnosis of oligospermia.
20686	Ollier disease can be diagnosed by observation of the patient's features and by looking for calcium deposits in the cartilage.
20688	The disease is diagnosed by isolating the virus from the blood or testing blood serum.
20690	Most cases of oncocytomas are only discovered by chance, which may be during a tomography or ultrasound of the abdomen.
20691	Medical evaluation of children with congenital Ondine's curse has impaired responses to the two strongest stimuli that increase breathing rate - the build-up of carbon dioxide and the decreases of oxygen in the circulation.
20693	The sight of the abnormally thickened, curved, or claw-like nail is usually enough to make a diagnosis of onychogryphosis.
20694	If all nails are affected then fungal infection is improbable. To avoid misdiagnosis as psoriasis, lichen planus, contact dermatitis, trauma, nail bed tumor or yellow nail syndrome, laboratory confirmation would be necessary. The three main practices are potassium hydroxide smear, culture and histology.
20695	Oophoritis can be diagnosed through: lab tests showing elevated blood cells; urinalysis and urine pregnancy to rule out other possible causes; wet preparation of cervical discharge; and cervical cultures to detect infections. Imaging studies such as pelvic ultrasonography may also help confirm the diagnosis.
20696	Diagnostic tools used to determine open-angle glaucoma include: visual acuity test; visual field test; dilated pupil exam; tonometry; and air puff test.
20697	Ophthalmitis diagnosis is mostly based on clinical manifestations.
20698	Diagnosis of the illness can be done by CT scan and MRI.
20700	Specialists diagnose a child with ODD, if he or she has a negative, hostile, and defiant behavior for at least 6 months, impairing social, academic, or occupational functioning.
20700	Physicians and other health professionals rely on: Their clinical judgment and experience; Information gathered from parents and teachers, who may fill out questionnaires; Information gained from interviewing the child.
20703	Children of patients are regularly screened for visual changes that may indicate signs of dominant optic atrophy. Specialists are undergoing research to become familiar with the behavior of the disease to guide development of therapies. The disease is also often misdiagnosed.
20704	Oftentimes, optic disc drusen is diagnosed by chance. A fundoscopic examination reveals that the patient's optic disc is small and often missing the optic cup. A B-scan sonography effectively detects the drusen buried within the disc. It can also be detected by a computerized tomography.
20705	Patients are examined through an ophthalmoscope to visualize the head of their optic nerve. But an abnormality does not usually appear though some patients may have a swollen optic nerve. In most cases, patients are unaware of their loss of color vision until the doctor asks them to close or cover their unaffected eye.
20706	A biopsy is often required to diagnose oral and throat cancer. In addition, X-rays, CT scan, or ultrasound may also be done.
20707	Most oral cancers look very similar under the microscope and are called squamous cell carcinoma. These are malignant and tend to spread quickly.
20708	Oral candidiasis is frequently diagnosed based on clinical presentations combined with exfoliative cytology examination, which involves a histologic examination of intraoral scrapings. In some cases, a biopsy may be recommended, particularly if the candidiasis is suspected to occur alongside other medical conditions. Additionally, samples can also be cultured for a definitive identification of the fungus.
20710	Patients are usually examined by their family doctors or dentists to check for common conditions such as irritaions, oral yeast infections, or canker sores. If these conditions are ruled out, patients are then referred to dermatologists or specialists in oral medicine for a more thorough examination. Patients undergo blood testing as well as allergy testing. Tissue cultures as well as biopsies may also be required to determine the patients' condition.
20711	Diagnosis includes undergoing throat culture test, endoscopic examination or the esophagogastroduodenoscopy and barium swallow tests to determine the presence and extent of the medical condition.
20712	Diagnosis includes physical examination which usually shows an enlarged lymph nodes in the groin and an enlarged testicles on the side affected. Rectal examination as well as under going screening tests such as STD Screening, Ultrasound imaging and Nuclear Scan of the testicles are used to confirm the medical condition that is seen in men.
20713	Electron microscopy to confirm clinical diagnosis Tissue culture Conventional histopathology Polymerase chain reaction (PCR) to determine a parapoxvirus as orf virus
20713	Orf diagnosis is mostly based on a physical exam, lab culture, and clinical manifestations, along with a history of recent contact with infected sheep or goats.
20715	Microbiological cultures are taken from respiratory secretions of patients and performed only done in biosafety laboratories because the culture of Chlamydia psittaci is hazardous. This process results in an increase in antibody titers against C. psittaci in blood samples with the probable course of the disease. History of exposure to the bacteria is important to the diagnosis.
20716	Oropharyngeal cancer is rarely detected early because it exhibits symptoms that are similar to other conditions. The patient's medical history, signs and symptoms, and physical examination results are integral in initial diagnosis. For a more definite diagnosis, a biopsy is required. In addition, the following tests may be recommended to determine how far the cancer has spread: X-rays; Computerized tomography (CT) scans; magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scans; and ultrasounds.
20718	A diagnostic questionnaire has been developed for orthorexia sufferers, similar to questionnaires for other eating disorders. A scientist proposes an initial self-test composed of two direct questions: "Do you care more about the virtue of what you eat than the pleasure you receive from eating it?
20719	Diagnosis includes blood pressure monitoring, blood tests, Electrocardiogram or ECG, Echocardiogram, stress tests, ambulatory blood pressure and ECG Recording tests, and Tilt table tests.
20720	The disorder is difficult to diagnose resulting to many patients being undiagnosed or misdiagnosed. Doctors currently test patients through tilt-testing, autonomic assessment, and vascular integrity. These tests can also aid in specifying and simplifying treatment.
20722	Members of families with history of the disease, 40 years old or above undergo an alkaline phosphatase blood test every 2 or 3 years to aid in early diagnosis and treatment. A high level of alkaline phosphatase in the blood in combination with normal calcium, phosphate, and aminotransferase levels suggests presence of the disease. The patient may then undergo other tests such as a bone-specific alkaline phosphatase test, bone scan, or x-ray.
20723	Osteoarthritis can be diagnosed through x-ray, blood tests, joint fluid analysis, and arthroscopy,
20724	Conducting radiographs if the affected joints and physical examination are the main methods used to diagnose OCD in patients. In this medical case, early diagnosis is highly important to be able to apply preventive measures for further degeneration. Without ant manage treatment, condition will worsen overtime and lameness can become irreversible.
20725	Diagnosis for this medical condition include physical examination, imaging tests such as CT scans, MRI and bone scans.
20726	An initial suspicion of osteochondroses can arise based on the affected patient's physical symptoms. For a more definite diagnosis, X-ray findings usually suffice.
20727	Physical examinations and medical history are usually the primary basis for diagnosis. Diagnostic examinations are also conducted such as x-ray, CT and CAT scans, and MRI.
20728	Initial diagnosis of OI may be solely based on the clinical features. DNA testing is usually performed to confirm for possible collagen mutations.
20729	Diagnosis include x-ray, bone scans and magnetic resonance imaging.
20731	Osteoid osteoma may be diagnosed through: X-rays; computerized tomography (CT) scan; magnetic resonance imaging (MRI); bone scan; complete blood count (CBC); and blood tests.
20732	Osteomas are generally detected via imaging studies such as X-rays, bone scans, CT (computerized tomography) scans, and MRI (magnetic resonance imaging) scans.
20733	Early diagnosis is based on the medical history, lifestyle and symptoms. Other supplementary examinations include blood tests and x-rays.
20734	Diagnosis for this disease include blood tests, complete blood count, erythrocyte sedimentation rate and C-reactive protein. Supplementary testing may also include biopsy, x-ray, CT and CAT scans and MRI.
20735	MRI and other imaging studies are the main basis for the diagnosis of this disease.
20736	The pharmaceutical company Merck, which sells the anti-bone-loss drug Fosamax, estimated in 2003, from its own market research, that about 8 million women had been found to have osteopenia and about a third of them were taking an osteoporosis drug.
20737	The diagnosis of osteopetrosis is usually made when dense bones are discovered through x-rays. A bone biopsy may also be made to further confirm the presence of the disease. Early detection is highly critical to provide effective medical intervention.
20738	Physical exam is conducted to determine if there are bone spurs. Imaging tests are conducted to confirm a diagnosis. X-ray exams, Computerized tomography (CT) scans, Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scans are common ways to look for osteophytes.
20740	A routine x-ray is the initial basis for the diagnosis to reveal osteoporosis of the bone. The bone of the patient may appear to be abnormally thin and light.
20741	A complete medical exam may be done when there is suspicion of bone tumor. This typically involves blood tests, as osteosarcomas are linked to elevated levels of some enzymes in the blood. X-rays and other bone scans may also be recommended, along with a biopsy, for a more definite diagnosis.
20743	Diagnosis for otitis largely depends on the patient's medical history as well as a thorough physical exam. A lighted instrument called an otoscope is often used to look for inflammation inside the patient's ear. If ear fluid persists, further testing may be done in the form of a tympanometry or an acoustic reflectometry.
20744	Physical observation through the use an otoscope is conducted to determine if one is suffering from swimmer's ear. Sample of drainage from the ear, if any, may be cultured to confirm if bacteria and fungi are the causes of the infection.
20745	Otitis media can only be detected by examining the ear with an otoscope. Only by toward looking in the ear and seeing how the eardrum responds to gentle pressure can the diagnosis be confirmed.
20746	The primary medical tool used to diagnose this disease is through the use of tuning forks to effectively reveal conductive hearing loss. The wenber test may also be perform as well as some thorough physical examination.
20747	The distinctive characteristics of OSMED typcailly include some severe joint and bone problems as well as very severe hearing loss. Physical examination and medical history are among the primary methods for diagnosing OSMED.
20748	Among the most common basis for diagnosis of ovarian cancer include ultrasound, pelvic examination, and blood tests. Other supplementary tests may follow to confirm diagnosis.
20749	Diagnosis and to aid in management decisions: Shape is the cyst irregularly shaped, Size, Composition Fluid-filled cysts aren't likely to be cancerous.
20751	To preliminarily assess the symptoms, overactive bladder screening questionnaire must be answered by the patient. A voiding diary, which may reveal patterns that will help understand the symptoms and identify contributing factors, may be ordered by the doctor. Basic diagnostic workup, and urodynamic tests, which are used to assess the function of your bladder and its ability to empty itself steadily and completely, may likewise be used to diagnose the condition.
20752	Overactive thyroid is diagnosed through the use of medical history, a physical exam and blood tests. Blood tests that measure the levels of thyroxine and TSH in the blood can confirm the diagnosis.
20753	The disorder can be diagnosed via the symptoms one exhibits.
20754	This condition can be diagnosed through blood cultures, Wright smear, gram stain and ceberospinal analysis.
20755	To diagnose this thyroid cancer, the taking of medical history and a physical exam is done. For a definite diagnosis, the following tests are recommended: ultrasound scan, fine-needle aspiration (FNA) biopsy, and other diagnostic tests, including magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) computerized tomography (CT) scan, and positron emission tomography (PET) scan.
20756	This disease is diagnosed using radiographs conducted on the long bones, which may reveal some subperiosteal new bone formation. Other radiographic abnormalities can also include cortical thickening and paranasal sinuses.
20757	A number of imaging tests can be used to diagnose this medical condition. CT scan and MRI are among the most common modality since both can provide high resolutions. This can prove to be useful in checking for thickened cerebral cortices.
20759	Peripheral artery disease may be diagnosed through the standard physical examination, blood tests, ultrasound, ankle-brachial index and angiography.
20760	Detecting Paget's disease early is highly critical in minimizing the damage caused by the disease. Among the common basis for diagnosis include blood tests, x-rays, and bone scans. Patients with Paget's have elevated alkaline levels and display abnormalities in the bones seen in x-rays.
20761	The primary diagnosis is through a breast examination will need mammography for supporting clinical evidence. Other imaging tests may also be conducted to clearly asses the condition and if the cancer has spread to larger areas. Early diagnosis is highly critical to control the spread of the disease.
20763	Urine and potassium sensitivity tests, and cytoscopy are used to diagnose painful bladder syndrome.
20764	To diagnose the condition, the taking of a thorough medical history and a pelvic examination are necessary.
20766	A medical history and a physical exam are the first basis for diagnosis. When palate cancer is suspected, a biopsy may be taken from areas with abnormalities for laboratory analysis. In addition, imaging procedures such as X-rays, computer tomography (CT) scans, magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scans, ultrasounds, and PET scans also help in diagnosis.
20767	Paleness can be diagnosed by physical examination as well as blood count tests.
20769	The presence of the isochromosome can be detected in skin fibrolast samples an amniotic fluid samples. The symptoms can also indicate the presence of the disease.
20770	Pallister-Hall syndrome can be diagnosed based on the clinical findings on afflicted individuals who display the classic signs. Since PHS is believed to be genetic, a molecular genetic testing may also provide avery good basis for diagnosis, especially for people with little or no evident symptoms at all.
20772	Diagnosis is done by conducting an iodine starch test to visualize how much sweat is excreted.
20773	While this disease is not a life threatening condition, early diagnosis is important to be able to administer immediate treatment to prevent the disease from worsening. Diagnosis is usually done through molecular diagnosis, which will show gene variations.
20774	The patient's own description of the palpitations is an initial indication of palpitations. This can be used as basis for further testing, which may come in the form of: routine medical examination; electrical tracing of the heart's activity (ECG); and blood tests to assess thyroid gland function.
20775	Most patients are diagnosed during the first two years of life. Usual diagnosis are based on cranial ultrasounds, CT scans and MRI.
20776	Diagnosis for pancreas divisum is based on ERCP and endoscopic ultrasound as well as MRI scans. The ERCP is considered to be the most definitive form of diagnosis available today.
20777	Basis for diagnosis will include ultrasound and other imaging tests such as the CT scans and MRI. Biopsy may also be performed tp study pancreatic samples.
20778	Most forms of pancreatic cysts are detected using imaging tests such as ultrasound, a computerized tomography (CT) or a magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scan. Samples of the cyst may be required for laboratory study to determine if it is cancerous or not.
20780	Diagnosis basis of the tumors may be conducted through light microscopy. Malignancy can be detected with the presence and spread of the tumors to lymph nodes.
20782	A sample of your blood may be analyzed for abnormalities such as: Elevated levels of the pancreatic enzymes, amylase and lipase; Elevated white blood cell count; Elevated liver enzymes and bilirubin, a substance that results from breakdown of red blood cells; High blood sugar (hyperglycemia); Low calcium level high calcium levels can cause pancreatitis, but low levels of calcium in the blood, called hypocalcemia, are a common result
20783	Diagnosis includes ultrasound and other imaging tests such as CT scans and MRI. Symptoms of this disease are usually the main basis of the diagnosis until further exams are conducted to verify.
20784	Diagnosis for PANDAS include the marked presence of some obsessive-compulsive disorder as well as episodes of the symptoms associated with the said medical conditions
20785	Diagnosis involves tests to check the patient's hormone levels as well as imaging tests such as brain imaging, x-ray and vision tests.
20786	Diagnosis is mainly based on a physical exam, laboratory tests that include CBC and thyroid tests as well as a psychological evaluation. These evaluations would take into consideration the frequency of the panic attacks, the triggering factors and if patients have certain phobias that need to be determined.
20787	To determine if one is suffering from panic attacks, several exams and tests including physical exam, psychological evaluation, and laboratory tests may be conducted.
20788	Panic disorder may not be diagnosed until extensive and expensive medical tests have ruled out other serious illnesses.
20789	Acute panniculitis are diagnosed histologically, this is usually done by conducting a biopsy of the affected tissue. Once the lesion is identified, the doctor can start searching for the cause, since it can be associated with a complication of another disease such as lupus and pancreatic cancer.
20792	A diagnosis of papilledema can be initially achieved by conducting a visual examination of the eye using an ophthalmoscope, which illuminates the retina and provide a good view for possible swelling or inflammation.
20793	If papilloedema is suspected, a physician will typically check the eyes for signs of papilloedema through an ophthalmoscopy or slit lamp examination. Diagnosis will usually be made on the following hallmark presentations: blurring of the disc margins; filling in of the optic disc cup; anterior bulging of the nerve head; edema of the nerve fiber layer; retinal or choroidal folds; congestion of retinal veins; peripapillary hemorrhages; hyperemia of the optic nerve head; nerve fiber layer infarcts; and hard exudates of the optic disc.
20794	In general, papillomas are diagnosed through direct visual examination. A pelvic exam may be necessary to screen for any associated cervical infections.
20796	To diagnose the infection of the said fungus, a doctor typically takes some tissue samples for analysis under a microscope.
20797	A visible pulsatile red mass usually found in the middle ear is often the primary basis of the diagnosis. Audiometry and tuning fork testing may also be able to detect the evidence of conductive hearing loss. Additionally, the cranial nerve testing can also reveal the cranial nerve deficits. A CT scan on the base of the skull can also provide supplementary diagnosis.
20798	The presence of Parainfluenza infections can be confirmed through cell cultures, immunofluorescent microscopy, and PCR. Currently, no vaccines exist to prevent Parainfluenza infections. However, research is underway for HPIV-1, -2, and -3 vaccines.
20799	Diagnosis for paralysis is mostly based on the patient's medical history, recent history of trauma or injury, clinical presentations and a physical exam. A neurologic exam may also be done to assess the reflexes, strength, and sensation of the affected areas in comparison to normal areas. Imaging studies, such as computed tomography (CT) scans, magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scans, or a myelography may also help uncover the site of the injury. Electromyography and nerve conduction velocity tests are also recommended to evaluate the function of the muscles and peripheral nerve.
20800	Diagnostic tools used to determine paralytic ileus includes: a stethoscope examination of abdomen; and abdominal x-ray; and an abdominal ultrasound. Typically, listening to the patient's abdomen with a stethoscope will reveal no bowel sounds simply because the bowel is inactive.
20801	Paralytic shellfish poisoning is diagnosed based on clinical presentations with a recent history of shellfish ingestion. Obtaining samples of contaminated tissues and their source for lab analysis is also imperative.
20802	Electromyogram (EMG) is frequently conducted to diagnose OMC. However, further imaging tests is necessary to provide supplementary diagnosis.
20803	The cancer can be diagnosed by radiography, CT scan, X-ray and MRI.
20804	There are no cures available for paraneoplastic syndromes as well as the resulting progressive neurological damage. Most of, diagnosis is based on the presence of cancer.
20805	Paraneoplastic syndromes can be determined by testing the blood and spinal fluid for the presence of certain antibodies. Common methods used to diagnose paraneoplastic syndromes include: blood tests; spinal tap or lumbar puncture; radiology tests; and standard imaging tests.
20806	A diagnosis is primarily based through echosonogram during the prenatal stage. At such time surgical intervention may be required.
20808	Paraphimosis is easily diagnosed on the basis of the sight of the trapped foreskin.
20809	Imaging test are commonly conducted to confirm the cause of paraplegia.
20810	The disease is commonly mistaken to be chickenpox or rosacea. Most often, doctors use biopsy to properly and accurately do the diagnosis. Although this disorder has not been found out to threaten the life of the patients.
20810	The disease is commonly mistaken to be chickenpox or rosacea. Most often, doctors use biopsy to properly and accurately do the diagnosis. Although this disorder has not been found out to threaten the life of the patients.
20811	Diagnosis of Parasitophobia is done through laboratory exams involving close observation of the patient.
20812	The diagnosis of Paratyphoid fever is mostly done basing on history of recent travel and also repeated culturing of the organism causing the fever. Cultures are reproduced from samples of bone marrow, urine, blood, and stool.
20813	The condition is often distinguished from other psychological imbalances of one person through a psychological test.
20814	In diagnosing paresthesia, the most definite diagnostic tool used is a CT (computerized tomography) scan.
20815	The best known way to diagnose Parkinson's disease is through taking down of medical history and employing some neurological tests are run through the patient. Blood samples and laboratory exams are not found to be effective in the diagnosis of such disease.
20816	To diagnose the disorder, most physicians take thetedious task of asking the patient or the guardians of medical histories on exposure to toxins, previous disorders, and use of some known drugs that may have stimulated or triggered parkinsonism. Brain imaging and scanning like the use of CT scans or MRI are also done to check for disorder in the structure which may have caused the symptoms.
20817	Diagnosis for paronychia is done by laboratory test to differential and to investigate what caused the infection.
20818	In diagnosing parotid gland cancer, the following diagnostic tools may be used: patient's history; physical exam; biopsy; CT scan; MRI; etc.
20819	A CT (computerized tomography) scan is the most ideal diagnostic tool to determine parotitis.
20820	Diagnosis can be done through urine analysis in the laboratory to check for presence of hemoglobin in the urine sample taken from the patient. Differential diagnosis is then done to know the organism causing the illness.
20821	To diagnose Paroxysmal nocturnal hemoglobinuria, a sugar lysis test is often done. In this process red blood cells samples collected from the patient are placed in a low ionic strength solution and is closely observed for possible hemolysis. Ham's acid hemolysis is a more specific test done for diagnosis if the result of the sugar test showed positive for hemolysis. The latest method for diagnosis includes flow cytometry for CD55, CD59, and CD16 done on red blood cells as well as white blood cells.
20822	Diagnosis can be done through laboratory tests and involves taking samples of the tissue affected.
20823	The most commonly used diagnostic tool is the chest X-ray. For post-surgical Partial lung collapse will be bibasal in prototype. Computed tomography and bronchoscopy are used.
20824	There is no need for a complicated diagnosis for the fear of childbirth as it is considered to be just a passing fear.
20826	Parvovirus infection is diagnosed through physical observation and blood tests.
20827	Isolation of Pasteurella multocida bacteria is usually done in sterile location such as the blood, pus or CSF.
20828	Before birth, fetus are already diagnosed of the disease through careful monitoring by ultrasound and tests run by the obgyne to check the health of the unborn child.
20829	Physical exam may apply pressure to different parts of your knee to determine exactly where you're experiencing pain. Ultrasound test uses sound waves to create an image of your knee, revealing the location of tears in your patellar tendon. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) uses a magnetic field and radio waves to create images that are more detailed than ultrasound images.
20830	The actual reason for the syndrome is unknown, but the medical field believes the culprit is the way the kneecap moves on your thigh bone. The syndrome could affect one or both of the knees, and is linked to over-or under-use of the knees.
20832	Patent ductus arteriosus is often diagnosed using the non-invasive techniques available. It is usually done by Echocardiography using sound waves to capture the motion and activity of the heart accompanied with studies using the Doppler. A chest X-ray may also be taken to reveal overall size of the infant's heart as well as the appearance of the blood flowing to the lungs.
20833	Patent foramen ovale is usually discovered by mere chance when imaging tests is done on the patient suffering therefrom.
20834	To diagnose pathological gambling, a psychiatric evaluation and history may be done.
20835	Pathological stealing is diagnosed when the afflicted is found to be exhibiting the symptoms, through physical and psychological evaluation.
20836	Laboratory tests run through samples of tissues collected from the patient may help in the diagnosis of the syndrome which will also include the use of imaging devises to check the extent of the effect.
20837	Diagnosis can be done by monitoring the present symptoms, as well as by genetic testing to find the chromosomal defect.
20838	A skin prick test and a blood test are usually conducted to determine the allergen that caused the allergic reaction.
20839	Diagnosis is done by taking medical history and asking questions of what foods has the patient eaten.
20840	Pectus excavatum is initially suspected from visual examination of the anterior chest. Auscultation of the chest could reveal displaced heart beat and valve prolapse. There may be a heart murmur occurring during systole caused by proximity between the sternum and the pulmonary artery. Lung sounds are often clear yet diminished due to decreased base lung capacity.
20841	Diagnosis for Pediatric T-cell leukemia is done by recognizing the normal B cells and T cells through laboratory tests. The tests allows for identifying distinctive chemicals on the surfaces of the cells. Through the laboratory test, some chemical substances that are found only on B cells can be identified, same goes for substances on T cells only.
20842	Diagnosis for pediculosis can be done by examining the part where the infestation occurs like the hair, body and the pubic hair parts.
20843	To diagnose head lice, a fine-toothed comb, and a special light called Wood's light may be used.
20844	The diagnosis of Pelizaeus-Merzbacher is usually suggested after it has been identified using magnetic resonance imaging or MRI of the lumpy too to the whole part of the brain. The lumpy too is usually evident by at least one year of age, although the infant shouls manifest more subtle abnormalities during his firsts months. The condition is commonly misdiagnosed to be cerebral palsy if the family's medical history doesn't suggest having it in the bloodline.
20845	The amino acid deficiency must be balanced by consumption of other sources of protein. It was common to prisoners of Soviet labor camps, the infamous Gulag. It could be found in cases of chronic alcoholism.
20846	Laparoscopy is helpful in diagnosing any tubal disease. Regular testing for sexually transmitted disease is also important to prevent infection.
20847	Differential diagnosis done on the bladder deformity is typical pelvic lipomatosis. It also includes some other conditions.
20848	Pemphigus is easily determined and diagnosed by a dermatologist basing from the extent of the lesions' appareance as well as the distribution. Diagnosis will require examination of skin sample that must be done by a dermatopathologist. The sample is taken from the blister edge which is then prepared for histopathology. It is then examined under the microscope. Definitive diagnosis will also require anti-desmoglein autoantibodies demonstration via a direct immunofluorescence focused on the skin sample. It can also be diagnosed using a sample of the patient's blood sample through the use of the ELISA technique.
20849	Pemphigus is easily determined and diagnosed by a dermatologist basing from the extent of the lesions' appareance as well as the distribution. Diagnosis will require examination of skin sample that must be done by a dermatopathologist. The sample is taken from the blister edge which is then prepared for histopathology. It is then examined under the microscope. Definitive diagnosis will also require anti-desmoglein autoantibodies demonstration via a direct immunofluorescence focused on the skin sample. It can also be diagnosed using a sample of the patient's blood sample through the use of the ELISA technique.
20850	Pemphigus is easily determined and diagnosed by a dermatologist basing from the extent of the lesions' appareance as well as the distribution. Diagnosis will require examination of skin sample that must be done by a dermatopathologist. The sample is taken from the blister edge which is then prepared for histopathology. It is then examined under the microscope. Definitive diagnosis will also require anti-desmoglein autoantibodies demonstration via a direct immunofluorescence focused on the skin sample. It can also be diagnosed using a sample of the patient's blood sample through the use of the ELISA technique.
20851	Pendred syndrome is diagnosed by taking down the family history if there are case of a similar condition along the bloodline, testing for thyroid hormones as well as checking the TSH levels if they are within the normal range, FNAC, analysis of the chromosomes, and testing for abnormal perchlorate discharges.
20852	Physical symptoms and allergic reactions are among the primary basis for this type of allergy. Immediate medical attention ins require in such case.
20853	In diagnosis of penile candidiasis, two main diagnostic tools are used to determine the presence of yeast infections: microscopic examination and culturing.
20854	Doctors examine the penis and looks for lumps. If lumps are found, a biopsy will be done. A biopsy is when a small sample tissue (in this case, tissue from the penis) will be examined to see if there are any cancer cells in the tissue.
20855	Diagnosis can be done during pregnancy or right after birth. The fetus is usually aborted naturally because it failed to develop normally. It can be seen using ultrasounds.
20856	Pentosuria can be accurately diagnosed be taking urine samples and doing a urine analysis of the sample to determine the levels of pentose. Differential diagnosis is also done to distinguish it from diabetes.
20857	Diagnosis of peptic ulcer can be made by measurements of antibody levels in the blood, stool antigen test, rapid urease test, EGD biopsy and urea breath test.
20858	As of present time diagnosis for Periarteritis nodosa has not been specified. Diagnosis is usually based on physical examination accompanied with some few laboratory studies which could help confirm accurate diagnosis. CBC is done to demonstrate elevation of white blood cells. Other tests include ESR, tests to check perinuclear pattern of the antineutrophil cytoplasmic antibodies, tissue biopsy, and tests to check elevation of c reactive protein.
20859	Doctors will listen for sounds characteristic to pericarditis described as a pericardial rub. The following are diagnostic tests to see if there are any abnormalities around the heart including the pericardium and its fluids: electrocardiogram (ECG), chest X-ray, computerized tomography (CT) scan, or magnetic resonance imaging (MRI)
20860	Several tests are available to check for perilymph fistula ranging from pressure test like the fistula test and positive pressure or Valsalva test, to florescence endoscopy. Audiometry and ENG tests are used to find out which ear is defective. Although MRI and CT scans are not the best tests for PLF, it can detect other confounding problems.
20861	There is no known diagnostic test for Perilymphatic fistula hence it is difficult to diagnose the disease. The diagnosis mostly depends on a high degree of just clinical suspicion. Evaluation for the patients will include a careful taking down of medical history, electronystagmography, physical examination, audiogram, imaging, and fistula test.
20862	Diagnosis can be done during pregancy and after giving birth by undergoing laboratory tests of the cervix sample taken from the pregnant women during the first trimester. A blood test can also be used in screening the pregnant women for possible hepatitis B infection and HIV infection.
20863	Diagnosis of Periodic Fever, Aphthous Stomatitis, Pharyngitis and Adenitis is done through consultation with a doctor and observing the patient for clinical symptoms. Patients manifesting the symptoms are then treated and observed again for initial responses to the treatment given.
20864	The disease is difficult to diagnose. In some cases, it can be detected by the use of Exercise Compound Muscle Amplitude Potential Test).
20865	Diagnosis of periodontitis is usually performed by dentist. The do it by inspecting the tissues surrounding the teeth using radiographs to check for bone loss.
20866	The use of Echocardiogram is the most common method to diagnose Peripartum cardiomyopathy as well as monitor how effective the treatment is.
20867	A thorough physical examination is done to diagnose Peripheral neuropathy to check for some symptoms of the neuropathy manifested by the patient.
20868	Modern multislice computerized tomography (CT) scanners provide direct imaging of the arterial system as an alternative to angiography. CT has complete evaluation of the aorta and lower limb arteries without the need for an angiogram's arterial injection of contrast agent.
20869	For the initial diagnosis of this condition, a physical exam is conducted. Other tests such as x-ray, CT scan, biopsy and laparoscopy are conducted to confirm the diagnosis. After a positive diagnosis, the process called staging follows, wherein the doctor, through additional tests, determines the extent of the cancer.
20870	Any of these tests or a combination, may be used to diagnose the disease: Pelvic exam, ultrasound (including pelvic or vaginal ultrasound), CT scan, Lower GI series or Barium enema to examine organs in the pelvis region for any abnormalities in size and shape. Blood tests may also be done to measure the level of CA-125, a tumor marker. In addition, a biopsy of tissue sample may also be obtained for lab analysis.
20871	Clinical grounds is basically the most often used method in diagnosing Peritonitis. Cinical manifestations mentioned are checked if they suggest peritonitis. Abdominal X-rays are also used which may reveal a dilated and oedematous intestines.
20872	Periventricular leukomalacia can be diagnosed using the ultrasound. But most physicians find the magnetic resonance imaging of the patient's head to be more accurate.
20873	Diagnosis of atrophic gastritis which one of the symptoms are to be confirmed through a gastroscopy with biopsies. Diagnosis of Pernicious anemia usually first requires a demonstration of megaloblastic anemia done through a full blood count and also of its direct cause which is vitamin B-12 deficiency done through measuring B-12 levels in the serum. A Schilling's test is also then used to differentiate it from other causes of deficiency of vitamin B12.
20874	Diagnosis of Perniosis is done by physical exam chacking on the symptoms manifested by the patient. It should be differentiated from frostbite and trench foot.
20875	A thorough review of the patient's medical history and physical examination may help the physician reach a diagnosis. To confirm the diagnosis, neurological examination, electromyography, nerve conduction studies and genetic testing may be done.
20876	The use of a chest radiograph is important for the initial ranking of possible diagnoses and can assist in making decisions regarding empiric therapies and the need for further testing.
20877	Treatments for Persistent sexual arousal syndrome can be done by discontinuing use of known medication that can cause it. Surgical treatment is also effective in some cases of this syndrome. In some cases where the cause is not known, arousal is reduced through the use of some antidepressants, anaesthetising gels, and antiandrogenic agents.
20878	Diagnosis of Persistent truncus arteriosis is done by examining the heart of the newborn child checking for some possible defects usually using imaging devises like ultrasounds.
20879	Diagnosis is dome be physicians by listening to the way the patient coughs and by examining the blood of the patients. Laboraty methods used in diagnosis will include culturing of the nasopharyngeal swabs on a Bordet-Gengou medium, immunofluorescence, polymerase chain reaction, and serological methods.
20880	To preliminarily diagnose pervasive disintegrative disorder, developmental screenings are conducted. To confirm a diagnosis, a formal and comprehensive evaluation follows, through the conduct of the following tests: medical history, genetic tests, neurological examination, communication and language tests, hearing, and vision tests, among others.
20881	Diagnosis of Pes planus can be easily done by a podiatrist or a chiropodist even during personal consultation. At home, one can diagnose Pes planus by the "wet foot" test. The persone can do it by soaking the feet in water then stand on a dry surface or on a heavy paper. The feet should leave an impression of a dry area for the arch to test negative to Pes planus.
20882	The symptoms are the primary basis of the diagnosis for pet allergy. Blood tests and skin tests may also be conducted to confirm the diagnosis.
20883	In order to arrive at a diagnosis, a detailed description of the seizures experienced must be relayed to the physician. Blood tests, brain scans, and electroencephalography (EEG) may be conducted to confirm a diagnosis.
20884	To diagnose the disease, the physician is guided by three known criteria. This includes family history, presence of mucocutaneous lesions that causes patches of hyperpigmentation often in the mouth and also on the hands and sometimes on the feet, hamartomatous polyps present in the patient's gastrointestinal tract, patients should have at least 2 of the 3 criteria to indicate being positive with Peutz-Jeghers syndrome.
20885	An expert urologist can diagnose Peyronie disease and suggest treatment. It can be diagnosed using different laboratory tests.
20886	Diagnosis of Pfeiffer syndrome can be done through newborn screening for some which symptoms still do not manifest upon birth. For fetus already manifesting symptoms, ultrasound imaging can be done as diagnosis with different laboratory tests.
20887	Healt care providers first need to determine the infection by testing pus and tissue that are prepared in 10% KOH. Doctors then need to find the characteristic key (the dematiaceous nature of the hyphal elements) to determine a diagnosis of phaehyphomycosis.
20888	There is no particular test to diagnose phantom pain, it may only be determined through the collection and assessment of information, from the person suffering the symptoms, relative to the circumstances which led to the symptoms of phantom pain.
20889	Diagnosis can be done by a psychological test.
20890	To diagnose pharyngitis, a physical examination is used. The physician will particularly take note of the condition of the pharynx to look for drainage or coating. Throat cultures may likewise be done.
20891	Diagnosis of the disease phenylketonuria is often first done through the new born screening of the baby 24 hours or 48 hours after birth.
20891	Newborn screening may be done to test for PKU. Blood tests are done to check the baby's phenylalanine level and certain metabolic disorders. In some cases, genetic testing will be undergone to identify genetic mutations.
20892	A diagnostic test used by physicians in the pastis to administer clonidine. Pressing gently on the adrenal gland can also be a way to diagnose such disorder however not often advisable. A differential diagnosis of pheochromocytoma is also done to distinguish it from other sickness with the same symptoms like anxiety disorders, paragangliomas, essential hypertension, hyperthyroidism, insulinoma, paroxysmal supraventricular tachycardia, and renovascular hypertension.
20893	The disease can be diagnosed based on reported outbreaks and presence of the symptoms shown by the patients.
20894	No tests available as this disorder can be observed.
20895	Phlebitis may be diagnosed by the use of the following: ultrasound, CT and MRI scans, venography, and blood tests.
20896	Phocomelia can be diagnosed even during pregnancy. Ultrasound images are used to check for defects in the fetus' fingers, arms, heart and other vital parts of the fetus.
20897	Tears leaking in to the nose through the nasolacrimal duct. The speed of the reflex seems to be favorable for the first theory, as it happens much too quickly for tears to be generated and drain into the nose.
20898	PSE usually is identified when the individual experiences seizures due to his exposure to the stimuli. A light test, photo stimulation, confirms the existence of the condition.
20899	Photosensitivity may produce a rash, which is known by the general term, photodermatosis.
20900	Pica may go undetected for a long period of time. Oftentimes, it is detected after the patients suffers from intestinal blockage, perforation or tear, poisoning, parasitic infection and dental injury. Blood tests are conducted to determine whether anaemia or mineral deficiency caused the disorder.
20901	A biopsy is necessary to confirm diagnosis of the disorder. This means that a small sample of the patient's brain is going to be tested by a neurosurgeon. Without this procedure, the diagnosis is based on symptoms and elimination of other conditions. Doctors are going to conduct medical interviews, mental examinations, imaging studies, lab tests, and physical examinations.
20901	Pick's disease can be diagnosed by using functional neuroimaging technologies and by closely monitoring the behavior of a person suspected with the illness. Experts, however find it difficult to determine the onset of the disease.
20903	Measuring the patient's arterial gas levels is the method used to diagnose the disorder.
20904	Skin biopsies will demonstrate that patients lack completely melanin pigment and melanocytes.
20905	The disease can be diagnosed immediately after the infant is born.
20906	Because this disorder resembles arthritis or other joint conditions, doctors require patients to undergo physical exams, X-rays and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). The fluid in the joints is also tested.
20907	Diagnosis for Pilar cysts is done by laboratory tests and scanning the affected part using imaging devices. Medical history are also taken account in the diagnosis.
20908	The existence of piles may be determined by physical observation and rectal examination. A more definitive diagnosis may be obtained through examination with the use of an anoscope, sigmoidoscope or colonoscope.
20910	To diagnose the disorder, doctors will take an individual's history and perform physical exams. They will take particular notice of tenderness, swelling and redness in between cheeks of buttocks, fever, and inflammation of the skin surrounding the area.
20911	Pimples are diagnosed simply by physical observation.
20912	Diagnosis may be had through physical examination. To confirm the diagnosis, other tests may be done, such as electromyography, to measure the muscles' electrical discharges, and nerve conduction study, to observe the stimulation of the nerve.
20913	Diagnosis of pinealoma is done radiographically and clinically. Aside from neurological and radiographic findings, ventriculography or pneumoencephalography may help in achieving a very reliable diagnosis.
20915	The main test to determine the existence of pinworm infection is the cellophane tape test. Under the said test, a cellophane tape is placed in the anal area, and the same is examined under a microscope for pinworm eggs. A diagnosis may be arrived at, through mere physical observation as well.
20917	Diagnosis for pituitary cancer is usually based on clinical and physical manifestations. Imaging tests such as magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and computed tomography (CT) scans are particularly helpful in diagnosis.
20918	To arrive at a diagnosis, blood tests may be done to detect deficiency in hormone production as a result of pituitary failure. Also, brain imaging, such as CT scans and MRI may help detect a pituitary tumor or other abnormality, which may be causing pituitary insufficiency.
20919	For initial detection of pituitary tumors, blood tests are commonly used. To determine the type of tumor, brain imaging, bone imaging and vision testing are recommended.
20920	Physical check-up will be necessary to diagnose the disorder.
20922	Doctors diagnose PLEVA through biopsy since it is usually misdiagnosed as chickenpox or rosacea. The disease is not fatal and not contagious.
20923	In cases of severe itching, topical or oral steroids may be prescribed. (Steroids provide relief from itching and improve the appearance of the rash, but they also ensure that the new skin that forms after the rash subside will take a longer time to match the surrounding skin color).
20924	Symptoms of pityriasis rubra pilaris may be difficult to diagnose. Patients consult medical professionals to accurately diagnose the disease.
20925	To reach a diagnosis of the condition pityriasis versicolor, mere physical examination or observation of the skin, by the physician, will suffice.
20926	This condition is diagnosed either through examination, after an episode of vaginal bleeding, or through ultrasound, during a routine prenatal check-up.
20927	A pregnant woman is suspected of having placental abruption when she feels sudden localized uterine pain with or without bleeding. If bleeding is not immediately apparent, the fundus is monitored to check if it is rising, which can indicate bleeding. The patient may undergo an ultrasound to rule out placenta previa, however, it is not diagnostic for abruption. If the mother is Rh negative, she may be given Rhogam.
20928	High-risk region with the exception of a visible bubo, signs and symptoms often mimic other, more common infectious diseases. Fluid is extracted from the airways using endoscopy. This procedure, a thin, flexible tube is inserted through the nose or mouth and down to the throat. A suction device is placed down the tube to extract a fluid sample from the airways.
20929	A doctor may suggest an X-ray or magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) to make sure you don't have a stress fracture.
20930	To diagnose plantar warts, mere inspection/ observation of the feet is usually sufficient. In cases where the presence of plantar warts is doubtful, the paring of the lump, and laboratory diagnosis of the tissue may be done.
20932	CT scans and MRI scans for detailed picture of the chest and lung area. A biopsy to study a sample of the tissue or fluid around the lung area can complete the diagnosis.
20933	Doctors usually diagnose pleural effusion based on the patient's medical history and results of physical exam. They confirm their diagnosis based on chest x-ray results.
20934	A physical examination is conducted for the initial diagnosis of this condition. Other tests such as x-ray, CT scan, biopsy and laparoscopy are conducted to confirm the diagnosis. After a positive diagnosis, the process called staging follows, wherein the doctor, through additional tests, determines the extent of the cancer.
20935	To reach a diagnosis, X-ray, CT scan, and blood test, may be used. To confirm a diagnosis, the removal of fluid in the lungs for laboratory analysis, or the examination of a sample of pleural tissue, obtained through pleural biopsy and video-assisted thoracic surgery, may be done.
20937	Diagnosis for plica syndrome is mostly based on the patient's medical history as well as a physical exam conducted by a doctor to determine what hurts and where. This is to determine which part of the knee is injured. MRIs and X-rays may be needed to rule out other conditions.
20938	Doctors recommend a serial contrasted gastrointestinal radiography or upper gastrointestinal endoscopy to show the web in the esophagus. Patients may also undergo blood tests to check for a hypochromic microcytic anemia that is consistent with an iron-deficiency anemia. A sample of the affected mucosa under biopsy shows epithelial atrophy and submucosal chronic inflammation. It may also reveal the presence of epithelial atypia or dysplasia.
20940	Doctors diagnose patients with Pneumocystis pneumonia based on x-ray results, which show an increased pacity in the lower lungs on both sides. A definite diagnosis is confirmed by immunofluorescent or histochemical staining of the patient's sputum or bronchial washings, which show characteristic cysts.
20941	Doctors diagnose patients with Pneumocystis pneumonia based on x-ray results, which show an increased pacity in the lower lungs on both sides. A definite diagnosis is confirmed by immunofluorescent or histochemical staining of the patient's sputum or bronchial washings, which show characteristic cysts.
20942	Doctors diagnose eosinophilic pneumonia through a patient's symptoms, results of physical examination as well as blood tests and x-rays.
20944	Doctors often diagnose pneumothorax based on chest x-ray results, or through a computerized tomography scan if the suspected cause is the result of an abdominal or chest procedure. Patients may also be given blood tests to measure the oxygen level in the arterial blood.
20945	Physicians often may misdiagnose POEMS syndrome because of its rare occurrence. Specialists diagnose the condition through the detection of an overgrowth of plasma cells due to the existence of an abnormal protein in the blood or urine. The condition may also be diagnosedthrough the detection of a bone abnormality found in X-ray results or a bone marrow biopsy.
20946	The disease can be diagnosed by observing the given symptoms on the patient.
20947	To diagnose Poikiloderma of Civatte, the physician may need to observe the patterns of the changes of the skin color.
20948	Poison ivy rash may be detected and diagnosed through mere physical observation or examination.
20949	Poland syndrome can be diagnosed in infancy using x-rays, computerized tomography scans and magnetic resonance imaging studies to ascertain the anatomy of the affected parts to guide the reconstructive surgery procedure. Other cases may be noticeable only upon maturity or puberty due to the body's different development particularly breast development in female patients.
20950	Individuals suspected with the virus undergo a thorough physical examination and laboratory analysis. Stool, urine, and saliva samples are analyzed for presence of poliovirus. Lumbar puncture or spinal tap may also be administered. The patient is also asked whether they have received or completed the series of polio vaccines.
20951	Allergy tests to determine the specific allergens a person is reacting to, the most common of which is a skin test where allergens are injected just under the skin to determine the body's reaction. In some cases, RAST blood tests are also used.
20952	Physicians confirm their diagnosis based on the results of physical examination and, biopsy or angiography done on affected tissues revealing inflamed blood vessels. Urine may also be tested to check the prescence of protein and red blood cells. However, no specific lab tests are done to diagnose the disease.
20953	Physicians examine results of laboratory tests such as complete blood count, erythrocyte sedimentation rate, rheumatoid factor test, aspartate aminotransferase test, creatinine level, and urinalysis. Chondrocalcinosis usually show on radiographs of affected joints. However, doctors confirm their diagnosis when they find calcium pyrophosphate dihydrate crystals in the synovial fluid of inflamed joints.
20955	The disease is diagnosed based on family history, showing of symptoms suggestive of the disease, and results of diagnostic methods determining the size and number of cysts and evaluating health of kidney tissue. Such diagnostic methods include ultrasound examination, Computerized tomography scan, magnetic resonance imaging scan, and genetic testing.
20956	Gynecologists or endocrinologists ask patients about their medical history and conduct a physical examination such as checking of weight, acne, hair growth, and darkened skin. Sexually active patients may undergo a gynecologic examination to rule out other possible causes of the symptoms, although it is not always necessary for diagnosis. Diagnostic tests such as pelvic ultrasound, gynecologic ultrasonography, or laparoscopic examination may also be conducted as well as blood tests. The results of the tests help confirm the diagnosis and determine the type of treatment to be undergone by the patient.
20957	Doctors may conduct blood tests to check the level of red blood cells in the body.
20958	Doctors usually use blood tests in diagnosing polycythemia vera to check for an increase of red blood cells, or in other cases, an increase in platelets or white blood cells. Doctors may also recommend bone marrow aspiration to examine whether there is an overproduction of blood cells, which may also reveal the DNA mutation the patient has polycythemia vera.
20960	There are different diagnoses depending on the type of polyendocrine deficiency. Like, for example in Type II, antibodies are screened regularly and may lead to hydrocortisone replacement and early intervention to prevent crises.
20961	Diagnosis of polymorphous light eruption is typically based on your skin's appearance and your history of sun exposure. To confirm the diagnosis and rule out other conditions, the doctor may order tests, including blood tests or a skin biopsy.
20963	Patients are interviewed about their medical history and current symptoms. Doctors diagnose polymyalgia rheumatica only after ruling out other causes since some of the symptoms are similar with those of other conditions. Doctors may also perform tests to determine whether polymyalgia rheumatica is the cause of the patient's symptoms such as the SED rate test and a test, which checks the level of C-reactive protein in the blood.
20964	Doctors discuss the patient's symptoms particularly weakness and examine the condition of the other body parts such as the skin, heart, lungs, and joints. Blood tests or urine tests are conducted to check for abnormally high levels of muscle enzymes or other internal organ abnormalities. Doctors may consider chest X-rays, mammograms, PAP smears, and other screening tests, or recommend an electromyography or magnetic resonance imaging.
20966	The existence of the syndrome is suspect when an individual reaches puberty prematurely, has Fibrous dysplasia, or CafΘ-au-lait spots. However, the syndrome may not show until the patient is near puberty or it may be diagnosed during infancy with evident bone disorder and increased secretions of endocrine from several glands.
20967	Doctors diagnose a patient as having the disease if he or she has 2 or three of the main criteria for diagnosis. History of the family having the condition, mucocutaneous lesions that cause patches of hyperpigmentation in the mouth, hands, and feet, and development of hamartomatous polyps in the gastrointestinal tract. A histological polyp sample is required for a definitive diagnosis.
20968	A person suffering symptoms of stomach polyps may be examined and diagnosed, through endoscopy.
20969	Uterine polyps may be diagnosed through the following: (1) transvaginal ultrasound, wherein a device that sends out sound waves and shows an image of the uterus, is placed in the vagina; (2) hysteroscopy, wherein a hysteroscope is inserted through the vagina to the uterus to examine the inside of the uterus and remove polyps that are found, if any; and (3) curettage, wherein a device is used to scrape the inside of the uterus.
20970	To diagnose Pompe's disease, possible causes must first be eliminated because the symptoms are varied among patients, and that those symptoms can also be observed in other diseases. Patients may also be required to undergo electromyography or electrocardiography. Enzyme activity testing may definitively diagnose of Pompe disease. However, a conclusive diagnosis is done through cultured skin fibroblasts, muscle biopsy, lymphocyte testing. Prenatal screening may also be done to check whether the unborn child is at risk of having the disease.
20971	A diagnosis may be reached through physical examination. In some cases, a skin biopsy or KOH test is done to confirm a diagnosis.
20972	Since it is just a mild fever home can be done which are home fever test, ear infection test and flu test.
20973	The diagnosis for Pontiac fever is mostly based on lab tests showing elevated levels of white blood cells, slight anomalies in liver function studies, as well as some decreased kidney function. In addition, imaging studies such as a chest X-ray may reveal abnormal densities and thus help rule out other possibilities.
20974	This condition may be diagnosed through multicolored dot-pattern tests, which provide an accurate assessment of color vision deficiencies. A person with poor color vision will find it difficult to see the numbers and shapes from within the dot patterns.
20975	A noninvasive imaging test, such as an ultrasound, or a magnetic resonance imaging scan, may help diagnose popliteal cyst and rule out simple cyst. If your doctor suspects a blood clot in your leg (deep vein thrombosis) or an aneurysm, he or she may suggest an ultrasound of your leg or other tests.
20978	The cysts are sometimes detected by transillumination of the skull in infancy. Physicians confirm the diagnosis by CT, MRI, or ultrasonography.
20979	Doctors diagnose disorder by conducting blood, urine, and stool tests to check for any abnormal enzymes that are necessary in the production of heme. Any abnormalities can cause build up of porphyrin or its precursors and excreted in the urine and stool.
20980	Primary diagnosis of PCT, familial can be based on the blisters and skin lesions that appear on the skin of individuals suffering from the disease. A more conclusive diagnosis of the disease, however, can only be made through laboratory testing. Persons wit PCT commonly have high levels uroporphyrinogen in their urine. It is also strongly suggested that testing for Hepatitis C and hemochromatosis be made since these conditions are closely related to PCT.
20981	Primary diagnosis of PCT, familial can be based on the blisters and skin lesions that appear on the skin of individuals suffering from the disease. A more conclusive diagnosis of the disease, however, can only be made through laboratory testing. Persons with PCT commonly have high levels of uroporphyrinogen in their urine. It is also strongly suggested that testing for Hepatitis C and hemochromatosis be made since these conditions are closely related to PCT.
20982	Primary diagnosis of PCT, familial can be based on the blisters and skin lesions that appear on the skin of individuals suffering from the disease. A more conclusive diagnosis of the disease, however, can only be made through laboratory testing. Persons wit PCT commonly have high levels uroporphyrinogen in their urine. It is also strongly suggested that testing for Hepatitis C and hemochromatosis be made since these conditions are closely related to PCT.
20986	Diagnosis of PPS is difficult since it is hard to distinguish symptoms of PPS from the original infection.
20987	The following criteria are sued to diagnose PTSD: 1. Exposure to a traumatic event, 2. Persistent reexperience, 3. Persistent avoidance of possible triggers connected with the trauma, 4. Persistent symptoms of increased arousal, 5. Symptoms lasting for more than 1 month, 6. Significant impairment in social, occupational, or other important areas of functioning.
20988	There is no single test to prove the presence of a post-concussion syndrome. A brain scan, to determine the cause of the symptoms, MRI scans, and referral to a psychologist or psychiatrist, in appropriate cases, may be done to help arrive at a diagnosis.
20989	A visit to the family doctor or an otolaryngologist.
20990	To arrive at a diagnosis of post-polio syndrome, doctors examine the medical history of the patient to determine if there was a previous diagnosis of polio. Other tests which may be used to confirm that the person is suffering from post-polio syndrome, and not from other diseases, are blood test, imaging, EMG and nerve conduction studies.
20991	Doctors can easily diagnose PTE after witnessing a seizure attack. A tool that doctors use to diagnose PTE is the EEG. Magnetic resonance imaging and CT scanning ares also used as diagnostic tools for PTE.
20992	Post-Vietnam syndrome can be observed on Vietnam War veterans who succumb to utter depression.
20993	The following conditions are used to diagnosed posterior urethral valves: ilateral hydronephrosis, thickened bladder wall, bladder diverticula and voiding cystourethrogram (VCUG) - diagnostic.
20995	Diagnosis of postpartum depression is difficult because symptoms are common after childbirth. However, an evaluation of your symptoms, family history and risk factors for depression could help in determining the severity of one's condition. The Edinburg Postnatal Depression Scale could also help evaluate the condition.
20996	A complete medical history and physical examination, diagnosis is usually based on symptoms. Laboratory tests may include: estimation of blood loss, pulse rate and blood pressure measurement, hematocrit (red blood cell count) or clotting factors in the blood.
20997	To distinguish between the typical baby blues, postpartum depression or postpartum psychosis, the doctor usually asks a patient to complete a depression-screening questionnaire.
21000	The disease can be diagnosed by measuring the levels of amniotic acids in the fetus while still in vitro. Other symptoms can be recognized after the infant is born.
21002	PWS is diagnosed through genetic testing.
21003	An audiology is often conducted to fully determine the extent of the hearing loss, which is often expected to progress as the person ages. About 85% of the adults above 70 years old suffer this problem. An ear examination is also conducted to ensure the ear has no obstructions that may cause this difficulty in hearing.
21004	Observing early signs of puberty.
21005	Preeclampsia is diagnosed when a pregnant woman is found to have high blood pressure and a high concentration of protein in the urine.
21006	Pregnancy toxemia /hypertension is diagnosed when a pregnant woman is found to have high blood pressure.
21007	Various tests including blood test and thyroid test are used to diagnosed premature aging.
21009	If the doctor suspects premature ventricular contractions, the patient may undergo an electrocardiogram to detect the extra beats, identify their pattern and their source, and look for any underlying heart disease.
21010	There is no specific diagnostic test efficient to diagnose premenstrual dysphoric disorder; a symptom chart will be provided by the doctor for you to fill out so as to evaluate the symptoms related to your menstrual cycle.
21011	Verifying the diagnosis of the Premenstrual symptom cannot be determined by laboratory test or unique physical findings. Though there are several standardized instruments have been created which are: Calendar of Premenstrual syndrome Experiences (COPE) Prospective Record of the Impact and Severity of Menstruation (PRISM) Visual Analogue Scales (VAS) Physicians also ask patients to take down notes or record of her symptoms on a calendar in a span of at least two cycles of menstruation.
21012	General screening test and hearing tests under the supervision of an audiologist can help determine the extent of your hearing ability.
21013	Diagnosis of presbyopia can be confirmed through a basic eye exam performed by an ophthalmologist or optometrist.
21014	It best recommended that the patient consult a urologist in this case. Complete Blood Count (CBC) Sedimentation Rate Urinalysis Urine culture Colony Count Sickle-cell preparation Coagulation profile Chemistry Panel Serum protein electrophoresis In cases that there are neurological sign the following are done MRI of the brain or proper level of the spinal cord.
21015	Visual examination by a doctor can determine the problem.
21016	Chest x-ray and CT scan will reveal dense white patches on the lung cavity and help in ruling out other disorders of the lung. Pulmonary function test can help indicate small lung capacity.
21017	Diagnostic procedures to help diagnose primary amenorrhea include physical examination and medical history. Urine pregnancy test may help rule out pregnancy. Pelvic ultrasound will provide clear view of the uterus and other organs responsible for menstrual flow.
21018	Liver function tests are blood tests that can check enzyme levels indicating liver disease and bile duct injuries. Magnetic resonance elastography helps diagnose primary biliary cirrhosis. Liver biopsy can confirm diagnosis of the condition.
21019	Oscillometry can help calculate the ciliary movement frequency, motility quality and pattern.
21020	Urine and blood examinations tests blood and urine for DNA changes that may cause primary hyperoxaluria. X-ray, CT scan and ultrasound of the kidney and bladder provides internal view of the kidney and urinary tract to reveal calcium oxalate deposits or kidney stones. Liver or kidney biopsy can confirm diagnosis of primary hyperoxaluria.
21021	Blood tests that measure serum calcium levels are helpful in the diagnosis of primary hyperparathyroidism. Elevated serum calcium levels indicate presence of the disorder. Parathyroid hormone activity is also at an increased level for patients suffering from primary hyperparathyroidism.
21022	The doctor asks about the patient's medical and family history of the immune disorder and performs a physical examination such as blood tests, evaluating infections, and prenatal testing to diagnose the condition.
21023	Careful clinical examination is performed by a qualified health professional to rule out other conditions presenting the same symptoms. Complete neurological examination can be helpful in providing diagnosis of primary lateral sclerosis. Magnetic Resonance Imaging of the brain and spine can provide a more detailed presentation of both areas to find out evidence causing spasticity of the muscles.
21024	The doctor asks about the signs and symptoms as well as the medical history of the patient. Often, the patient undergoes a pelvic examination and other physical exams. Blood tests such as pregnancy test, follicle-stimulating hormone tes, luteinizing hormone test, serum estradiol test, and karyotype assist in the doctor's diagnosis of the condition.
21025	Doctors usually use blood tests in diagnosing primary polycythemia to check for an increase of red blood cells, or in other cases, an increase in platelets or white blood cells. Doctors may also recommend bone marrow aspiration to examine whether there is an overproduction of blood cells, which may also reveal the DNA mutation the patient has polycythemia vera.
21026	Computerized Tomography (CT) scan and Magnetic Resonance Imaging are used to detect underlying conditions that may cause damage to the language center of the brain. Blood tests are carried out to check out possible causes that resulted to memory loss; however, there is actually no specific diagnostic test to diagnose primary progressive aphasia.
21027	Cardiac catheterization with angiography is carried out to diagnose primary pulmonary hypertension after ruling out other possible causes of pulmonary hypertension because signs and symptoms may be used to misdiagnose the condition.
21028	Physical symptoms and liver function test results showing extremely elevated blood levels of liver enzymes may suggest diagnosis of primary sclerosing cholangitis. Endoscopic Retrograde Cholangiopancreatography (ERCP) can provide image showing narrowed bile ducts; this method is considered as the gold standard for diagnosing primary sclerosing cholangitis. Magnetic resonance cholangiography provides image of the liver and bile ducts.
21030	Echocardiography or thallium scintigraphy is used in the aim to diagnose prinzmetal's variant angina. ECG finding will demonstrate elevated ST segment rater than ST depression. Coronary angiography using injections of provocative agents such as ergonovine, acetylcholine or methylergonovine into the coronary artery is the most effective way in the diagnosis of Prinzmetal's variant angina. Once provocative substance is introduced exaggerated spasms are visualized in the image view confirming diagnosis of prinzmetal's variant angina.
21031	Occupational or physical therapists evaluate the condition by conducting standardized testing and structured observations of the patient's responses to sensory stimulation, posture, balance, coordination, and eye movements. The results are analyzed on which recommendations for the appropriate treatment are based.
21032	Activated partial thromboplastin time (aPTT) test, Prothrombin time test, and thrombin time test can provide diagnosis of proconvertin deficiency, congenital. Confirming diagnosis is done through factor VII assay.
21033	Physical examination by the doctor medical history of the patient.
21034	Blood tests, colonoscopy, flexible sigmoidoscopy, and STD screening can help in the diagnosis of proctitis.
21035	Confirming diagnostic test is not available for progeria; however, due to discovery in association with genetic mutations genetic testing for LMNA mutations can be carried out when progeria is suspected.
21037	CT scan is used to assess the white matter in the brain, Magnetic Resonance Imaging is used for a more detailed analysis of the brain. Neurologist and radiologist are the health care professionals that can aid in establishing diagnosis. Cerebrospinal spinal fluid tests are carried out to rule out other disorders and help distinguish progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy.
21038	Muscle biopsy involves taking a muscle sample for examination with the aim to determine and confirm diagnosis of progressive spinal muscular atrophy. Electromyogram measures the muscle's electrical activity; abnormal electrical muscle activity caused by diseases and neuromuscular conditions can be distinguished by Electromyogram.
21039	Careful evaluation of the fundamental signs and symptoms manifested in an individual may help in providing accurate diagnosis. Brain autopsy is the only reliable method to reveal progressive Supranuclear palsy.
21040	Blood tests can detect the overproduction of prolactin as a result of a pituitary tumor. Other test may include: brain imaging using CT or MRI scans, and vision tests.
21041	The doctor conducts a pelvic examination to check for bulge in your vaginal wall or instructs the patient to act as if defecating in order to see the protrusion of the bladder or other organs into the vagina. The patient may also be asked to to contract the muscles of the pelvis to check the pelvic floor muscles' strength.
21042	A gynecologist conducts a pelvic examination and sometimes recommend imaging tests such as ultrasound or magnetic resonance imaging to further evaluate the condition.
21043	Diagnostic routines possible include enzymatic test, partition and elution chromatography, and direct chemical ionization mass spectrometry. Chorionic villus sampling is a test done during the early part of pregnancy to detect any problems with the fetus especially for pregnant mothers who have a family history of inherited and genetic problems. This can be used to provide antenatal diagnosis of prolidase deficiency in an unborn child.
21046	Neuropsychological examination
21047	Rectal exam (Digital) Blood test - Prostate-specific antigen (PSA) and Prostatic acid phosphatase (PAP) Urine tests - to check for infection or blood Transrectal ultrasonography Ultrasound Intravenous pyelogram Cystoscopy Biopsy Pathology analysis
21048	Transrectal ultrasound helps in further evaluating the prostate if cancer is suspected. Prostate biopsy can be used to confirm diagnosis of prostate cancer and assess the severity of the condition.
21049	The patient is asked to answer questions regarding his symptoms and other health problems. The doctor also performs a physical examination including digital rectal exam as well as a urine test. Doctors may also perform other tests such as a transrectal ultrasound, urodynamic pressure-flow studies, cystoscopy, and intravenous pyelogram or CT urogram to confirm the diagnosis. To evaluate the condition, additional tests may also be conducted such as postvoid residual volume test, prostate-specific antigen blood test, and urinary flow test.
21050	Prostatitis can be diagnosed via the symptoms exhibited by the patient, as well as other diagnostic procedures to detect the presence of microorganisms and other disease-causing agents.
21051	Digital rectal exam can help the doctor detect an enlarged and tender prostate gland indicating prostatitis; the doctor can feel it because the prostate gland is situated in front of the rectum. Urinalysis is done by means of urine sample subject for microscopic evaluation for bacteria and white blood cells while semen analysis is done by means of semen sample - presence of bacteria and white blood cells in both samples can confirm diagnosis of prostatitis.
21052	Physicians will take a complete medical history and will let the patient undergo a color-blind test.
21053	Laboratory tests for thrombotic risk factors may be required such as antithrombin level and free Protein S level. Family and medical history is valuable in evaluating and assessing the relation of an individual's deficiency with the risk of having prothrombic disorder. Coagulation test like fibrinogen level and fibrin degradation D-dimer test can also be essential.
21054	Screening to diagnose small children suspected to be having protein S deficiency are often postponed because often times early testing can be erroneous.
21055	Carefully evaluated physical examination and health history in combination to the signs and symptoms present can provide accurate diagnosis of protein-energy malnutrition.
21056	Diagnosis for proteinuria involves examining the urine sample using a chemically treated paper. The paper will change its color when dipped into the sample with presence of too much protein.
21057	Careful examination of the individual with the help of imaging studies such as CT scan, Magnetic Resonance Imaging, and X-ray of the skeletal system can help in the diagnosis.
21059	Prune belly syndrome can be observed during an ultrasound procedure. An unusual large abdominal mass is seen in the abdominal area, and the abdomen tends to swell because of the urine. Urinary tract infections often occur in patients with prune belly syndrome.
21060	Prurigo nodularis is examined through the presence of lesions and itching. Biopsy is done onto the skin, and lesions would show high levels of eosinophils.
21061	The patient usually undergoes a thorough physical examination. The doctor will also ask about the patient's medical history as well as the start of itching, the factors that made it better or worse, and how the patient takes care of his or her skin. Blood tests may also be conducted if the doctor suspects an underlying medical condition, such as liver disease or iron deficiency anemia.
21062	Doctors diagnose the condition by asking the patient about the symptoms. The doctor may refer the patient to a dermatologist or proctologist for further evaluation if the cause cannot be determined. The patient may be required to undergo a rectal exam. Proctoscopy or colonoscopy may also be conducted to check the digestive tract to identify an underlying cause of the condition. But the specific cause may never be identified.
21065	Regular check-up with a dermatologist
21066	The disease is diagnosed by radiography. CT scans, ulatrasound and nuclear medicine are also used to observe pseudogout.
21070	The doctor takes the patient's complete medical history as well as signs and symptoms, such as diarrhea and abdominal pain. He or she usually orders a stool sample, colon examination, computerized tomography, and blood tests to help diagnose pseudomembranous colitis.
21072	The disease is diagnosed when one is suspected of papilledema. It can also be observed under a CT scan or MRI.
21073	Pseudomyxoma peritonei is usually diagnosed during surgery for certain medical problems such as hernia repair. This tumor is also associated with other appendiceal carcinomas, peritoneal carcinomas, and mucinous cancers. It can also be found via CT scan.
21074	Pseudopapilledema can be observed under an ophthalmoscopic examination, or when the patient is undergoing treatment for another eye disease.
21075	PPSH is diagnosed when the infant is born. In some cases the condition is observed via ultrasound.
21076	Pseudoxanthoma elasticum can be diagnosed via echocardiogarphy and CT scan to detect signs of hemmorhage. Radiographs are also used to look for soft-tissue calcification. To detect the disease is quite important so as other problems in the different internal organs can also be diagnosed.
21077	The disease can be diagnosed via the symptoms the patient exhibits. The managing physician must know that the patient was exposed to birds to be able to further evaluate the condition of the disease.
21078	Psoriasis can easily be detected through medical and dermatological examinations.
21079	Psoriatic arthritis can be diagnosed under medical observation, or when patients with psoriasis begin to complain from muscle and joint discomfort.
21080	Psoriatic rheumatism is diagnosed via CT scan and radiograph examinations. It is important to diagnose psoriatic rheumatism early to detect other inflammations in internal body organs.
21081	Patients with psychogenic polydipsia are diagnosed with large ventricles and small cortex on MRI. The disorder can also be observed under careful restrictive monitoring. Patients are also known to consume fluids from any source they can find.
21083	Psychosis can be diagnosed through intensive monitoring of the patient, as well as a series of counseling sessions where the the patient demonstrates loss of thoughts, disorientation, and unusual behavior. Careful diagnostic procedures should be taken since the condition may be aggravated when the patient is given wrong medications.
21084	The disease can be diagnosed under a ophthalmological examination, as well as ophthalmoscopic procedures. Once diagnosed, it can immediately be treated.
21085	It is important for doctors to find out if there a more people who have eaten the same food and drank the same drinks have the same, or at least, similar symptoms. Food poisoning is suspected when more than one experiences the symptoms. A stool exam may be conducted to check for the bacteria that causes food poisoning. A sample of the contaminated food may me examined as well.
21086	Ptosis can be diagnosed via physical examination as well as ophthamological examination to detect any tumors or diseases inside the eyelid.
21087	Diagnosis is done by mere observation of the presence of pubic crabs on the patient.
21089	Puerperal fever can be diagnosed after the above-mentioned symptoms were exhibited, or when the affected person complains about such symptoms after giving birth or suffering a miscarriage.
21090	Pulmonary alveolar proteinosis is observed via chest x-rays, surgical and endoscopic biopsies of the lung.
21091	Doctors may examine the symptoms of this disease and any of its complications. Risk factors may also be checked as well as other related conditions to rule out its symptoms.
21092	Health care providers usually perform a physical exam, use a stethoscope to listen to the heart and lungs, and may hear rapid breathing, increased heart rate, crackles in the lungs or abnormal heart sounds, and pale or blue skin. Other possible tests include blood oxygen levels, chest x-ray, and ultrasound of the heart or echocardiogram.
21093	The sickness can be observed as the patient shows more of the symptoms as he travels to higher altitudes.
21094	Arterial blood gases and pulse oximetry are the common tests to evaluate the function of the lungs. Embolism meanwhile may be tested thru chest x-ray, pulmonary ventilation/perfusion scan, pulmonary angiogram, and CT angiogram of the chest. Detecting DVT on the other hand may involve Doppler ultrasound exam of an extremity, venography of the legs, and plethysmography of the legs. Abnormalities cause by a strain on the heart may be revealed thru an ECG.
21096	Examinations used to check this disorder are chest X-rays, ECG or echocardiography. These tests may be used to check the right ventricular hypertrophy or artial dilation.
21097	Pulmonary hypertension can be diagnosed via the presence of other preexisting heart problems. Thus it is better to treat the preexisting diseases first to prevent the onset of pulmonary hypertension.
21098	Doctors determine the pitch and location of the murmur to know if the the patient has pulmonary valve insufficiency. An EKG and an echocardiography, ultrasound imaging, chest x-ray and/or an angiocardiography may be used to confirm the diagnosis.
21099	Pulmonary sequestration can be diagnosed via imaging studies such as radiograph tests and MRI. Bronchography and arteriography can also be done to detect malicious behaviors in the lungs and blood vessels.
21100	Pulmonary valve stenosis can be diagnosed via radiographic examination and MRI.
21102	Pulseless disease diagnosed by chest X-rays and blood serum tests that measure the blood's sedimentation rate. In severe cases, MRI is used to produce images of the damages brought about by the disease.
21103	The disease is diagnosed via red blood cell count results and bone marrow examinations.
21106	A medical history will be asked of the patient to determine if any other member of the patient's family has this disorder. The doctor may then require some blood tests, especially the platelets. Tests may include to determine how the platelet is functioning, including a platelet count. Blood coagulation and fibrinolysis are also tested.
21107	The disease can be diagnosed based on physical tests, urine tests and skin biopsy. Blood tests must show increased white blood cell count, while skin biopsies must show presence of vasculitis.
21108	TTP can be diagnosed via blood cell count and physical examination.
21109	Abscesses should be drained, infection control where in patients should be screened for S. aureus carriage, MRSA decolonisation may be performed to get rid of skin or upper respiratory carriage. N.B. screening is also done to make sure recovery of S. aureus independent of their susceptibility to meticillin.
21111	The disease can be diagnosed then nitrite and leukocytes are present on a urine test. Ultrasound meanwhile is used to determine kidney stones and other anatomical problems for those who have recurring infections.
21112	Doctors use various strategies to diagnose the condition because its signs and symptoms can mimic those of other conditions such as gastroesophageal reflux disease. Strategies used by doctors include reviewing the baby's medical history such as vomiting, which may need to be described. They also conduct physical examination by feeling the baby's abdomen to feel an enlarged pyloric muscle. Blood tests are also conducted to check of the loss of electrolytes , which may signal the continuous vomiting and dehydration. Other tests such as ultrasound and contrast X-ray are also performed to the abnormalities in the stomach.
21113	Apart from the developing lesions, PG can be diagnosed via skin biopsy and other imaging studies to detect other underlying systemic illnesses. Routine blood count should also be taken to detect the onset of leukemia.
21114	Prior muscle injury can be a basis of the onset of pyomyosits, since bacteria can seed into the affected area. HIV-infected patients are prone to this infection as well.
21115	A positive diagnosis test for pyridoxine deficiency can be made certain by measuring erythrocyte levels of aspartate aminotransferase and transketolase in serum.
21116	There is a difficulty in diagnosing this condition a regular check-up or visitation with a professional psychiatrists helps in properly diagnosing this condition.
21118	Pyropoikilocytosis is diagnosed when a patient is born, or during a physical examination. Parents can also undergo genetic counseling to detect the presence of the disease.
21119	Heartburn can be diagnosed via the burning sensations the patient exhibits.
21120	The disease can be diagnosed via imaging studies such as MRI. Laboratory testing is also conduct to observe the cell's enzyme production and citric acid cycle.
21121	Laboratory studies and blood tests are conducted to diagnose PKD. Biopsies on pregnant women are also done to detect the onset of the disease. Imaging studies are as well held to check on how the disease has affected the bloodstream.
21122	Diagnostic procedures for Q fever involve platelet count, serologic testing and indirect immunofluoresence assay. Laboratory testing is therefore important since the symptoms of Q fever do not directly indicate the presence of the disease.
21124	In the emergency room, the doctor tests for sensory function and movement as well as asks about the circumstances of the accident in order to rule out spinal cord injury. However, emergency diagnostic tests are performed if the patient is not fully awake, has obvious weakness or neurological injury, or complains of neck pain. Diagnostic tests may include X-rays, computerized tomography scan, magnetic resonance imaging, and myelography. If spinal cord injury is suspected, the patient may be administered with traction to immobilize the spine, as well as high doses of methylprednisolone ,which is often given within eight hours of injury. The doctor further conducts a neurological examination a few days after the injury to determine its severity and predict the patient's extent of recovery. The patient may also undergo more diagnostic tests.
21126	Patients undergo a physical exam with doctor looking for tick bite marks, which are round, reddish punctures in the skin. Specifically, a diagnostic serology is available by way of the IgM and Weil-Felix tests.
21127	The doctor asks the patients regarding problems associated with the condition such as endocarditis, pneumonia, or hepatitis to rule out other conditions. The doctor also asks whether the patient has been exposed to areas that pose risks of infection. To confirm his or her diagnosis, the patient undergoes a blood test.
21128	A physical exam will be conducted by a doctor who will look at the patient's tonsils to check for infection and abscess. The doctor looks for physical signs including redness and edema in the tonsillar area of the affected side and swelling of the jugulodigastric lymph nodes.
21129	The doctor checks culture samples of the patients' blood or sputum for F. tularensis. However, diagnosis is preferably done through identification of antibodies to the bacteria in the patient's blood sample. Patients may also undergo a chest X-ray to check for signs of pneumonia.
21130	In humans suspected of rabies, differential diagnosis almost always includes any known cause of encephalitis. Herpes simplex virus type 1, varicella-zoster virus, and less commonly, a number of enteroviruses need to be ruled out. A PCR (polymerase chain reaction) test may be done to assess cerebrospinal fluid, viral culture, and of course, serology. Currently, inexpensive rabies diagnostic methods are being developed in clinical research settings. Among those evaluated is a technique using light microscopy, which is said to be ten times cheaper than standard rabies tests but better able to diagnose the virus.
21132	The sickness can be diagnosed based on the symptoms present in the patient. Blood serum is also tested for possible characteristic changes in the cells.
21133	The dose of radiation experienced by an exposed person is determined by knowing the details of the known exposure, manifesting symptoms such as vomiting, testing for disease-fighting white blood cells and abnormality in the DNA of blood cells. Certain devices are such as a dosimeter and survey meter are used to determine the amount of radiation absorbed by the exposed individual.
21135	Radon detection devices are used to check if there is radon gas in the home or office. This device can easily be bought in hardware stores, home improvement stores, or (in the US) by calling the National Radon Hotline. Radon devices are left in homes for several days to check if there are any radon found in the area.
21137	Clinical test for common symptoms of Ramsay Hunt syndrome often leads to a diagnosis of the disease. The appearance of painful red rashes, ear and mouth blisters, plus one-sided facial paralysis in patients are often indicative of the condition. A polymerase chain reaction (PCR) test may be performed on the blister fluids to test for viral genetic materials.
21138	A mutation screening of patients can lead to a detection of RECQL4 mutations, which are characteristic of Rapadilino syndrome.
21139	The condition is diagnosed by basing the symptoms in people who went under surgery. Other tests are performed to rule out conditions that have the same symptoms.
21140	The sudden onset of epileptic seizures in childhood and the progressive worsening of such seizures often lead to a diagnosis of Rasmussen's encephalitis. Other diagnostic signs include gradual mental deterioration as well as the onset of hemiparesis and other one-sided symptoms.
21141	Detection of the organism in the blood, skin, joint fluid or lymph nodes are the common diagnosis for the fever. Other diagnostic method is the blood antibody tests.
21142	If Raynaud's disease is suspected, a clinical screening for known symptoms often helps in diagnosis. A physician may perform a cold-simulation test (for example, placing a patient's hand in cool water or exposing the patient to cold air) to invoke a Raynaud's attack. Although simple screening for diagnostic symptoms can lead to diagnosis, it is much more difficult to identify underlying conditions in secondary Raynaud's. To identify Raynaud's as primary or secondary, a physician may perform a nail fold capillaroscopy, in which the patient's nail fold is examined under a microscope. Deformed or enlarged capillaries near the nail fold often indicate an underlying disorder.
21143	Diagnosis for Razor bumps include close examination of the bumps with laboratory tests to confirm other infections.
21144	Clinical symptoms indicative of reactive arthritis include pain, swelling, heat, and redness in the joints. An MRI is usually effective in confirming a diagnosis. To identify the causative organisms, swabs may be taken from the cervix, urethra, and throat. Urine and stool samples may also be analyzed.
21145	Diagnosis should be performed by trained mental health experts specifically in differential diagnosis.
21146	Diagnosing reactive hypoglycemia can prove very difficult. Patients exhibiting symptoms similar to reactive hypoglycemia may not actually have the condition. Diagnosis is focused on confirming that the symptoms are caused by low blood sugar and that these symptoms are alleviated once blood sugar levels return to normal.
21147	The doctor learns about the patient's headaches and the medications used in order to ascertain his or her diagnosis. The patient undergoes a physical examination to determine any signs of illness, infection, or neurological problems. If the cause is uncertain, the patient undergoes blood or urine tests to determine any underlying medical conditions. The doctor sometimes recommends an X-ray, computerized tomography, or magnetic resonance imaging.
21148	The pain associated with rectal abscess is often mistaken for hemorrhoids. However, abscess is suspected when pain rapidly progresses within 1-2 days, along with the appearance of general symptoms such as fevers and chills. Hemorrhoids can be ruled out, and rectal abscess confirmed, through simple visual inspection of the affected area.
21149	Rectal cancer can be diagnosed by screening for adenomatous polyps, or masses which can potentially become cancerous. Screening procedures done to determine rectal cancer include: stool sample analysis, stool blood test, stool DNA test, flexible sigmoidoscopy, barium enema, colonoscopy, and virtual colonoscopy.
21150	The doctor takes down the patient's history of the condition and conducts a physical exam. Tests are also undertaken by the patient such as blood tests, colonoscopy, flexible sigmoidoscopy, and STD screening.
21151	Doctors diagnose the condition by asking the patient about the symptoms. The doctor may refer the patient to a dermatologist or proctologist for further evaluation if the cause cannot be determined. The patient may be required to undergo a rectal exam. Proctoscopy or colonoscopy may also be conducted to check the digestive tract to identify an underlying cause of the condition. But the specific cause may never be identified.
21152	To diagnose rectal neoplasm, there are some tests that can be done to examine the rectum and colon. A fecal occult blood test can be done to check the patient's stool for microscopic blood. A digital rectal exam can also help identify indicative lumps in the patient's rectum. In addition, a series of x-rays known as barium enema can be done to examine the lower gastrointestinal tract. Other related diagnostic tests include sigmoidoscopy, colonoscopy, and of course, a biopsy to determine signs of cancer.
21153	The patient may be asked to sit on a toilet and strain as well as do a phosphate enema. This is to confirm the presence of a prolapsed rectum.
21154	The doctor takes note of the patient's symptoms as well as conduct tests such as sigmoidoscopy or ultrasound to assess whether there are rectal ulcers. For instance, if the tests show a thickening of the rectal wall and internal anal sphincter, solitary rectal ulcer syndrome may be determined.
21155	The doctor confirms his or her diagnosis of the condition through a physical examination of the vagina and rectum. During the physical examination, the patient is asked to sit down as if defecating causing the bulging of the rectocele. This enables the doctor assess the rectocele's size and location. The strength of the patient's pelvic muscles may also be assessed by contracting them as if stopping a stream of urine. If the examination reveals anything unrelated to the patient's condition, the doctor recommends an imaging test such as magnetic resonance imaging or an X-ray exam. These tests help determine rectocele's size and the efficient emptying of the patient's rectum. Note that these tests are not usually done in diagnosing a rectocele.
21157	Rectum cancer is diagnosed by rectal biopsy and endorectal ultrasound procedures.
21158	The doctor diagnoses subconjunctival hemorrhage by looking at a patient's eye and may not need to conduct further tests. But the patient may be asked about his or her general health, and may undergo a routine blood test to ensure there is no serious bleeding disorder. The patient's blood pressure may also be taken.
21159	German measles is diagnosed based on the prevalence of the symptoms.
21160	Currently, there is no specific diagnostic test for CRPS. Reflex sympathetic dystrophy syndrome can be diagnosed primarily though observation of the patient's symptoms. However, certain tests such as x-rays, sweat testing, thermography, sympathetic blocks, and electrodiagnostics can be conducted to confirm the diagnosis.
21163	A complete medical history is taken to see if any one in the family also suffers form this Refsum disease. Further tests may also be taken to check the genes particularly chromosome 10 and chromosome 6.
21164	Regional enteritis can be diagnosed through a simple physical exam, complete blood count, and stool sample analysis. Conducting barium x-rays as well as a colonoscopy and a biopsy may also help in diagnosis.
21165	There is no specific test to confirm Reiter's syndrome; and as such, diagnosis can be difficult. When Reiter's syndrome is suspected, physicians must examine the patient carefully to rule out other potential causes of arthritis. The patient's medical history and current symptoms may provide indicative clues. Physicians may also use X-rays to help confirm a diagnosis of Reiter's syndrome. X-rays of afflicted patients often reveal spondylitis, sacroiliitis, swelling of soft tissues, cartilage damage, or bone deposits in the joints where the tendon connects to the bone.
21166	Reiters arthritis can be diagnosed based on the symptoms, as well as urine tests and laboratory tests in search of salmonella and other infections.
21167	Lab studies: hematologic study, blood tests Chest radiography and hepatobiliary ultrasonography for cases of pulmonary or hepatic manifestations dominate, ECG
21167	Several exams may be conducted to check the symptoms of replasing fever to rule out other underlying causes. A physical exam can check the degree of the patient's dehydration. Hepatosplenomegaly (enlargement of the liver and spleen) will also be checked, and yellowing of the skin. Skin exam may also be reveal rashes.
21168	There is no specific test to check relapsing polychondritis, but blood tests can be used to check for the sources of inflammations. Doctors will also test for other related diseases.
21170	To diagnose renal artery stenosis, physicians may evaluate and compare levels of rennin, a hormone released by the kidneys which regulates blood pressure, within the right and left renal veins. If rennin levels in one side are distinctly higher than the other, this indicates a kidney that releases high amounts of rennin, a symptom consistent with renal artery stenosis.
21171	Since kidney stones or renal calculi are associated with underlying metabolic conditions, a common diagnostic step includes screening for such conditions as Dent's disease, tubular acidosis, or medullary sponge kidney. In addition, a chemical analysis is done to test for deficiencies and/or metabolic excesses that precipitate the development of renal calculi.
21172	Symptoms of renal cancer may resemble other diseases. In most cases, renal cancer is asymptomatic in its early stages. The disease is frequently detected incidentally through imaging for unrelated conditions. For a diagnosis of renal cancer, a medical history and physical examination of the patient are important diagnostic factors. Physicians may order blood and urine lab tests, IVP (intravenous pyelogram), renal angiography, computer tomography scan, MRI (magnetic resonance imaging), sonography or ultrasound, and other imaging tests. Based on the results of these initial tests, a biopsy may be necessitated to screen for malignancy.
21173	Diagnosis of renal carbuncle is mostly on the basis of clinical manifestations, a physical exam, and the patient's medical history.
21174	Because renal cell carcinoma is asymptomatic during its early stages, it can be quite difficult to diagnosis until the disease has advanced to such a degree that treatment becomes useless. Currently, there is no specific blood test for a diagnosis of renal cell carcinoma. However, family history of the disease plays a major factor in diagnosis. Individuals with multiple family members affected with the disease should be monitored closely. In most cases, renal cell carcinoma is detected accidentally when radiology is done for other vague symptoms.
21175	Sufferers of this disease are in intense agony. Heath care providers may require some tests done like urinalysis, microscopy, urine pH, blood tests for renal function, electrolytes, calcium, phosphate and urate and Helical CT scanning. Blood pressure needs to be taken as well.
21178	Renal osteodystrophy is often detected at the beginning of treatment for end-stage renal disease. Blood tests will show decreased levels of calcium and calcitriol, and increased levels of parathyroid hormone and phosphate. X-rays will reveal bone features of renal osteodystropy (chondrocalcinosis at the knees and pubic symphysis, osteopenia and bone fractures).
21179	The primary test that health care providers may call for is urography. But, the diagnosis can also be done and confirmed using ultrasound, CT scans or MRI scans.
21182	Respiratory acidosis may be suspected based on clinical symptoms. To confirm the diagnosis, a blood sample may be obtained to analyze pH and arterial blood gases.
21183	Diagnosis of respiratory diphtheria is mostly based on clinical manifestations and physical symptoms.
21183	Aside from the physical exam, doctors may require a sample taken from the patient to grow a nose and throat cultures to check for the virus.
21184	A Physical exam is used to show if the patient is breathing rapidly, has rapid pulse and is restless. The doctor also listens to the chest for wheezing or crackles signifying obstructions in the lungs.
21185	The doctor evaluates the symptoms and determines if these are due to bacterial infection. Health providers may then prescribe antibiotics.
21186	Skin monitoring which is painless to check if the oxygen level in the bloodstream is lower than normal. Blood test or Complete blood count (CBC) to check for bacteria, viruses or other organisms. Chest x-rays
21187	Diagnosis is usually done on the basis of the patient's medical history, physical manifestations, a thorough medical exam, a biopsy of sample tissue, as well as standard imaging studies such as a chest X-ray, an MRI (magnetic resonance imaging), or a computerized tomography (CT) scan.
21188	To date, there is no single diagnostic test available to confirm restless legs syndrome. However, the condition may be diagnosed clinically based on the patient's symptoms and family history. Although recent efforts have been made to standardize the criteria for RLS diagnosis, the disease remains difficult to diagnose and therefore remains largely under-diagnosed or misdiagnosed.
21192	Doctor checks for a tear in the retina.
21193	Retinitis pigmentosa can be diagnosed through visual field testing and electroretinography (ERG), which document progressive loss in photoreceptor function. Family history can be used to determine the mode of inheritance for the disorder. DNA testing is also recommended.
21194	The indicative white reflex in the pupils of affected children can be attributed to other unrelated causes. However, a closer ophthalmologic examination can rule out other possibilities. In fact, a more thorough evaluation by an ophthalmologist is almost always necessary to diagnose this potentially fatal disease. In children with a family history of the disease, a routine check-up by an ophthalmologist is required.
21195	Electroretinogram (or ERG) is an important diagnostic test to determine retinoschisis. This process entails stimulating the eye with light after either light or dark adaptation while the patient wears contact lenses embedded with an electrode. The eye's reaction to the stimuli is then documented and evaluated. The ERG test measures photoreceptor activity as well as the overall response of the retina's external layer.
21196	The testicle easily moves from from the groin to the scrotum during the doctor's physical examination. Regular monitoring of the condition is done until the testicle has descended normally or has been repositioned surgically.
21197	After ejaculation, the doctor examines the patient's urine for the presence of sperm. However, if there is no semen but the patient has a dry orgasm, it may be due to a problem in the patient's semen production.
21198	Examining a preterm baby's retina is done to determine the zone (i.e. how far the retinal blood vessels have grown) and the stage (i.e. whether or not the vessels are growing flat along the walls of the eye) of the disease. Pupillary dilation may be induced using eye drops, followed by retinal examination using an indirect ophthalmoscope (a special lighted instrument). The retina's peripheral areas are then pushed into view using scleral depression.
21199	Retroperitoneal fibrosis can be diagnosed on the basis of a patient's family history as well as through radiologic testing. In some cases, diagnosis of the disease cannot be confirmed until further surgical exploration. Recent advances in research indicate that steroids can be used as an alternative to surgical ureterolysis.
21200	Rett's syndrome is often misdiagnoses as autism. However, a period of close observation of associated symptoms will confirm the disease. Standard diagnostic criteria are also used in diagnosis.
21202	If Reye's syndrome is suspected, blood tests may be done to evaluate the patient's liver function. Other possible causes of liver problems and neurological abnormalities may also be tested. Other diagnostic measures include a lumbar puncture (spinal tap) to rule out other possible bacterial or viral infections, and a liver biopsy to rule out other possible causes of the liver problems. Diagnosing the disease in its early stage is extremely crucial. If undetected, Reye's syndrome can lead to severe brain damage and death.
21204	Risks for the Rh positive fetus can be identified through blood testing of both parents. The disease may also be detected if a previous pregnancy bore an Rh positive infant. Family history and clinical physical exams are important diagnostic factors. In addition, screening the mother's blood for the presence of Rh positive antibodies may be done. An ultrasound is also recommended to detect any fluid accumulation or organ enlargement in the fetus. Amniocentesis may be required to measure the amount of bilirubin (which produces the yellowish color) in the amniotic fluid.
21205	A rhabdoid tumor is commonly detected through magnetic resonance imaging or MRI. This imaging technique usually provides greater anatomical detail, allowing physicians to distinguish a tumor from healthy tissue. Additionally, magnetic resonance spectroscopy or MRS may be helpful in identifying specific organic compounds produced metabolically within the sample tissue, thus differentiating between glial tumors and neuronal tumors.
21206	Rhabdomyolysis may be suspected in patients who have suffered severe injuries, trauma, or prolonged immobilization. However, a definite diagnosis is often made only at a later stage, particularly when kidney function begins to deteriorate. Abnormally high levels of creatinine and urea, as well as a distinct decrease in urine output combined with reddish urine discoloration usually indicate rhabdomyolysis. To date, the most reliable diagnostic step is screening for blood levels of creatine kinase (CK), an enzyme released by damaged muscle. Levels greater than 5 times the ULN (i.e. upper limit of normal) usually confirm the diagnosis.
21207	Suspicion of rhabdomyosarcoma will prompt a physician to perform blood, muscle, and marrow tests to confirm diagnosis. In particular, the myo D1 protein works as a significant immunohistochemical marker. Its absence often indicates the presence of this type of cancer.
21209	The doctor will ask for blood testing including a test to know the parents' blood types. The health care physician will then screen for antibodies as part of routine prenatal care. A positive antibody screen should be evaluated to include the identification of the antibody and its titer.
21210	Diagnosis is based on a set of standardized criteria first established in 1944 by physician T. Duckett Jones, MD. The confirmation of two major criteria, or one major and two minor criteria, where there is also evidence of a prior strep infection, can confirm diagnosis of rheumatic fever. JONES is used as a mnemonic to establish the major criteria: J for inflammation of the joints (usually migratory polyarthritis); a heart-shaped O for inflammation of the heart muscle (carditis); N for nodules containing firm collections of collagen fibers on the wrist, arms, and knees; E for erythema marginatum (persistent rash arising from the trunk and spreading outward in a snake-like pattern); and S for Sydenham's chorea (pertaining to a series of rapid involuntary movements). Minor criteria include fever, arthralgia, laboratory abnormalities (elevated sedimentation rate, high C reactive protein, leukocytosis), electrocardiogram abnormalities, evidence of group A strep infection, as well as evidence of previous rheumatic fever or inactive heart disease.
21211	Doctors may base its diagnosis on the patient's overall health and medical history, the extent of the disease and the patient's tolerance to medication and other procedures.
21213	Diagnosis for rheumatoid arthritis can be determined with x-rays and blood tests. A common diagnostic step is to screen for the rheumatoid factor. An expert called a rheumatologist (specializing in disorders of joints and connective tissues) usually performs the diagnosis and manages the long-term treatment of affected patients.
21214	The doctor determines the cause of the patient's discomfort by conducting a medical history and physical examination. The patient may also undergo certain diagnostic procedures such as X-rays or other imaging as well as blood tests. Doctors also use a complete blood count to diagnose the condition.
21215	Skin testing is used to check which allergens have an effect on the patients. This test is also called scratch testing or prick testing. This is because the skin is pricked or scratched and will come in contact with possible allergens. Allergens may also be injected just under the skin.
21216	The doctor assesses the patient's personal and family medical history including the signs and symptoms and their usual treatmetn. The doctor will also performs a physical examination to check for more to other causes of the signs and symptoms. The patient may also undergo a skin prick test and allergy blood test.
21217	Health provider can diagnose Rhinophyma without testing, but it is advised to conduct a skin biopsy can verify the diagnosis.
21220	The disease can be detected by undergoing CT scan as well as other physical examinations.
21221	The level of riboflavin can be diagnosed using a blood test. The test will measure the levels of the vitamin B2 in the blood.
21222	To diagnose Richter syndrome, a lymph node biopsy followed by substantial blood tests may be done. Other possible diagnostic steps include a bone marrow biopsy and a CT scan.
21223	Ricin poisoning can be diagnosed by the presence of ricin in the blood serum.
21224	Blood tests showing abnormally low serum calcium, low serum phosphorous, and high serum alkaline phosphatase can lead to a diagnosis of rickets. Another clinical sign is metabolic acidosis in arterial blood gases. An X-ray can also be done to determine affected bones with distinct changes in shape or structure. A bone biopsy is also sometimes done to confirm the diagnosis.
21228	Rift valley fever may be suspected if a huge number of young livestock dies simultaneous with a lot of humans suddenly becoming ill. In animals, tissue biopsies can be done to determine the infection. Diagnosis in affected humans can include serology (screening for IgM antibodies) and virus isolation. Naturalization tests to determine leukocytosis, leukopenia, thrombocytopenia, or schistocytes in blood samples can be done to confirm diagnosis.
21229	The doctor will conduct a physical exam to reveal abnormal lung and heart sounds, murmurs, irregular heartbeats, and weight gain, Tests may include: an ECG, chest x-ray, echocardiogram, or blood tests.
21230	Riley-Day syndrome may be diagnosed based on the following criteria: parents of Ashkenazi Jewish background, absence of fungi-form papillae in the tongue, decreased deep tendon reflexes, lack of axon flare after intradermal histamine, and no overflow of tears with emotional crying. In addition, genetic testing and/or prenatal testing can provide some insight.
21231	Physicians can diagnose ringworm based on its appearance. To confirm the diagnosis, skin scrapings may be taken and examined microscopically for the presence of fungal components. Skin scrapings may also be cultured on specialized agar plates to identify organisms that cause ringworm.
21232	The doctor determines whether the condition is ringworm or another skin disorder by sample skin scrapings or samples from the infected area and examine them under a microscope. If it is ringworm, a fungus shows. If negative but ringworm is still suspected, the samples are further tested in a lab.
21233	The doctor determines whether the condition is ringworm or another skin disorder by taking a sample of the skin or plucking hairs from the infected area and examine them under a microscope. If it is ringworm, a fungus shows. If negative but ringworm is still suspected, the samples are further tested in a lab.
21234	Direct visualization of the larvae emerging from superficial skin biopsies is performed. In some instances directly observing the microfilariae using a slit lamp when transferring into the anterior chamber of the eye is done.
21235	A prenatal diagnosis can be determined through a fetal ultrasound, usually in the 19th week of pregnancy. Genetic counseling based on family history also plays an integral role in diagnosis and treatment.
21236	Rocky Mountain spotted fever can be diagnosed based on a triad of clinical presentations: fever, rash, and history of tick bite. However, this triad is not always evident during initial examination. The rash itself is a more indicative sign, showing an inward spread pattern described as "centripetal"; i.e. beginning at the extremities and spreading towards the trunk. However, the rash only manifests 2-5 days after the onset of fever. Diagnosis for Rocky Mountain spotted fever can be difficult in the early stages of the disease. However, if undiagnosed and treated early, it can be fatal for affected humans.
21238	Physicians examine the skin of the patient and may conduct certain skin tests to determine the disorder.
21240	For the moment there are no specific tests for rosacea. Diagnosis is based on appearance alone.
21243	Determination of specific antibodies to the RRV ELISA techniques
21244	If the injury is severe or the cause of the pain cannot be determined, the patient diagnostic imaging tests such as X-rays, magnetic resonance imaging scan, ultrasound scan, and and an arthrogram. These tests helps in delineating the shoulder joint, muscles and tendons.
21245	Diagnosis for this infection usually follows the identification of gastroenteritis due to severe diarrhea. Stool tests are used for this diagnosis.
21247	Affected patients can be screened for the presence of IgM antibodies specific to the Rubella virus. Diagnosis can be supported by the appearance of the characteristic rash.
21249	Measles or rubeola can be diagnosed based on the appearance of the characteristic rash plus clinical observation of the three Cs: cough, coryza, and conjunctivitis. The appearance of Koplik's spots inside the mouth is also diagnostic of the disease; however, this symptom is often unseen and may disappear within a day after its onset. In addition, a diagnosis of rubeola can be confirmed by testing for measles-specific IgM antibodies in the laboratory, or by isolating the measles virus RNA from respiratory specimens. Contact with other infected patients provides epidemiological evidence that supports the diagnosis.
21252	The illness can be diagnosed by physical examination of the affected knee. X-ray can also detect signs of fracture or injury.
21253	In a critical situation, a physical exam may be the only diagnostic test before emergency surgery. In other cases, a sample of fluid from your abdomen may be tested for the presence of blood. If time allows, the doctor may use X-rays or other imaging tests to identify or rule out other possible causes of your symptoms.
21254	The disease can be diagnosed by blood sugar tests, growth hormone studies, chromosome testing and skeletal surveys.
21258	Sacral dimples may be evident when an infant is physically examined. Imaging tests may be required if the dimples are very large or accompained by discoloration, swelling , drainage, or tenderness. Such tests include ultrasound and magnetic resonance imaging to help rule out more serious conditions
21259	Doctors have difficulty diagnosisng sacroiliitis. Thus, they confirm their diagnosis based on localized pain experienced by the patient, results of X-rays and magnetic resonance imaging scan of the sacroiliac joints, cultures of fluid from the sacroiliac joint, or blood culture if an infection is the cause.
21262	Imaging studies such as Computerized tomography (CT) scans and Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scans are commonly used to detect cancerous tissue in the salivary glands. A biopsy of sample tissues can also provide a more definite diagnosis.
21263	Salla disease can be diagnosed based on clinical presentations of the disease. To confirm the diagnosis, an MRI (magnetic resonance imaging) can be done. In affected patients, MRI results show delayed or arrested myelination. In addition, tests can be done to screen urine samples for potentially elevated levels of free (unconjugated) sialic acid. Prenatal testing can also be used to determine the occurrence of Salla disease in fetuses.
21264	A blood test may be used to produce a culture to see if there is salmonella in the blood. To confirm the diagnosis, a stool test and/or a urine test may be needed.
21265	If Salmonellosis is suspected, stool samples of the patient can be cultured in the laboratory to determine an infection. Additionally, routine tests such as blood chemistry, full blood count, and an ultrasound may be done to rule out other illnesses. Once the diagnosis is confirmed, further testing needs to be done to classify the infection according to its type.
21266	Health care providers can conduct a pelvic exam. The doctor will also ask for a blood test and a mucus swab.
21267	The fungal infection is diagnosed by microscopic tests to detect the presence of the fungus, through blood, sputum and tissue biopsy.
21268	It is diagnosed through undergoing fever tests, flu tests and infection of the ear test.
21269	Sandhoff disease can be diagnosed through a biopsy of sample tissues from the liver. Cells and tissues can be molecularly analyzed to screen for a genetic metabolic disorder. An enzyme assay, genetic testing, and occasionally a urinalysis are also common diagnostic steps.
21270	A physical exam may be done to screen for signs of spleen and liver swelling. An eye exam can also be done to determine clear corneas (as opposed to the cloudy corneas of Hurler syndrome patients). Urine tests are typically required to screen for elevated mucopolysaccharides in the urine. In addition, neurological tests can be done to identify signs of seizures and mental retardation. Other tests that can lead to a diagnosis of Sanfilippo syndrome include: echocardiogram, slit lamp eye exam, blood culture, bone x-rays, and skin fibroblast culture.
21273	Sarcoidosis symptoms may mimic those of other disorders; therefore it is sometimes necessary to rule out other similar diseases before arriving at a diagnosis. Typically, Sarcoidosis is determined after a routine X-ray reveals a chest abnormality. To confirm the diagnosis, physicians need to study the patient's medical history as well as perform further physical exams.
21274	Pulmonary sarcoidosis can be diagnosed through chest X-rays, pulmonary function tests, bronchoalveolar lavage, blood tests, plus a biopsy of the sample tissue. Additionally, it is important to eliminate other possible causes of the symptoms, because pulmonary sarcoidosis can mimic the symptoms of other diseases.
21275	If bone cancer is suspected, the doctor takes the patient's medical history and performs a physical examination. Patients also undergo tests such as X-rays, computerized tomography scans, ultrasound, magnetic resonance imaging, bone scan, and examination of a tissue sample.
21276	Granulocytic sarcoma can be diagnosed based on a biopsy of the affected tissue. It is also important to eliminate other possibilities in diagnosis, because granulocytic sarcoma is very similar to malignant lymphoma in pathology. However, modern diagnostic techniques now exist to distinguish it from lymphoma, including the use of monoclonal antibodies to analyze its immunohistochemistry.
21279	Diagnosis is done when a person has an ability in one field that is exceptionally higher than what is expected providing that his or her IQ or general level of functioning.
21281	Diagnosis of scabies can be done by finding the characteristic burrows. However, this often proves difficult because the burrows are typically scarce or obscured by other skin marks (such as scratch marks or other unrelated skin irritations). If burrows are not identified in the itchy areas, the body's entire skin surface should be thoroughly examined. Ink or a topical tetracycline solution may be rubbed on areas suspected of scabies infestation. If scabies infection is present, the examined skin will show a characteristic zigzag or S pattern of the burrow. To confirm the diagnosis, a microscopy can be done on surface scrapings to screen for mite, ova, or fecal pellets.
21282	Scabies can be diagnosed by the presence of itch mites during physical examination.
21284	The doctor reviews the patient's medical history, examine the mouth and ask the patient to describe the symptoms as well as his or her oral habits and oral care routine. The patient undergoes a general medical examination to check for signs of any associated conditions. The patient may also undergo some tests such as complete blood count and other blood tests, allergy tests, and oral swab culture or biopsy. He or she may be referred to specialists for further screening, diagnosis, and possibly treatment.
21286	The doctor examines the child's sore throat and other symptoms to determine whether strep is the caused for the illness. The doctor takes a sample from the back of the throat to test whether it is harboring strep bacteria. This enables the doctor to determine the if the illness is caused by the strep bacteria. Otherwise, the doctor orders other laboratory tests such as a throat culture, rapid antigen test, and rapid DNA test.
21287	Scarlet fever can be diagnosed clinically. Blood tests can be conducted to screen for leukocytosis with neutrophilia, elevated eosinophils, high erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR), increased C-reactive protein (CRP), and elevated antistreptolysin O titer. Blood culture will often be negative; however, specific throat culture might reveal streptococci.
21288	Schamberg's disease can be determined based on clinical symptoms. However, it is imperative for physicians to first rule out other more serious causes of purpura. A biopsy of the affected skin can be done to confirm the diagnosis.
21289	Scheie syndrome (or MPS in general) can be diagnosed clinically with physical examination coupled with urine tests to screen for excretion of excess mucopolysaccharides in the urine. Enzyme assays can also be done to confirm the diagnosis. To verify if a fetus carries the defective gene, chorionic villus sampling and amniocentesis can be done for a prenatal diagnosis. For parents with a family history of the disease, genetic counseling may also help.
21290	Diagnosis is made through the use of X-ray and physical examination as well as review of the medical history of the patient.
21291	Diagnosis is made through psychological examination as well as review of the personal medical history of the patient and undergoing imaging tests such as the MRI, X-rays and CT Scan.
21292	There is currently no blood test or genetic test that can specifically diagnose Schinzel-Giedion syndrome. The only diagnostic method available today is physical examination of the affected infant to determine clinical presentations of the disease. However, an ultrasound can be done to identify any kidney defects, and radiologic methods can be used to perceive any skeletal anomalies.
21293	A microscopic exam of stool and urine samples can be done to determine the presence of the parasite's eggs. In the event that stool and urine exams turn out negative, a tissue biopsy can be done to reveal the presence of eggs.
21293	Stool or urine sample to check for eggs of the parasite Tissue biopsy is done when tests in stool or urine comes out negative Antibody detection is performed for clinical management and epidemiologic surveys
21294	An ultrasound can reveal the occurrence of clefts in a fetus' brain. If cerebrospinal clefts are identified, the infant will be born with Schizencephaly.
21295	The condition can be diagnosed via strict monitoring of one's behavior, based on the premise that he has schizophrenia.
21296	A psychiatric diagnosis of schizophrenia is usually based on the self-described experiences of the patient, as well as his/her behavior as observed by others. Currently, there is no laboratory test that will confirm the diagnosis.
21300	Psychologists or counsellor visitation
21302	Schwannomatosis is diagnosed based on the clinical symptoms that appear. The presence of multiple Schwannomas is the fundamental diagnostic criterion, which are seen by means of CT (Computed Tomography) scan, MRI (Magnetic Resonance Imaging) or X-ray.
21303	The physician will recommend a series of clinical examinations in order to diagnose sciatica. MR neurography may help in the diagnosis of sciatica.
21304	Scimitar syndrome can be diagnosed by means of different useful diagnostic procedures like echocardiography (can be either transthoracic or transesophageal), angiography, computerized chest tomography, and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI).
21305	Diagnosis is made through examination by an opthalmologist by visual acuity test, slit lamp examination and CT Scans, MRI and ultrasonographies to rule out other possible causes.
21306	Diagnosis is made through physical examination as well as the review of the medical history of the patient.
21307	Clinical manifestations, presence of auto-antibodies and sometimes biopsy are used in diagnosis of scleroderma.
21308	The doctor takes the patient's complete medical history and performs a physical exam to look for changes in the texture, color, and appearance of the skin. Skin samples may be take for microscopic examination in a laboratory but may not be conclusive. Patients may also undergo laboratory tests to look for antibodies often found in the blood. The doctor may also recommend additional tests to identify any lung, heart, or gastrointestinal complications to identify limited scleroderma.
21310	X-rays Referral to an orthopedic surgeon Routine diagnostic work up (CBC, urinalysis, sedimentation rate, chemistry panel, spinal survey) Bone survey Bone Scan CT Scans MRI
21311	Diagnostic procedures used to establish diagnosis of Scoliosis with unilateral unsegmented bar includes all or some of the following: * Physical examinations including Adam's Bend Test and neurological examination * Scolie and AP-Lateral X-ray * Measurement of the Cobb angle
21312	Diagnosis is made through physical examination as well as review of the medical history of the patient to determine the exact cause. Blood testing is also used to confirm the presence of the condition.
21314	Diagnosis is typically based on the appearance of the skin as well as itching history. A punch biopsy test may also be conducted to determine the type of skin ailment the patient has. This will become the basis of the treatment approach for the said condition.
21315	Men usually unintentionally discover scrotal masses or through a testicular self-examination. Doctors perform physical exams and recommend lab tests to confirm an infection or another cause. The patient may also undergo an ultrasound examination to reveal the scrotum's contents.
21316	Diagnosis is made through physical examination and observation of symptoms. It may also be done through the use of blood testing.
21317	Diagnostic procedures to find out serum Ascorbic Acid and white blood cell ascorbic acid levels help to diagnose Scurvy. Less than 0.2 mg/dl of serum ascorbic acid level and less than 30 mg/dl of white blood cell ascorbic acid level confirms diagnosis of Scurvy.
21318	Sufferers can identify if they are experiencing sea sickness just by basing on the symptoms.
21319	SAD is diagnosed during counseling and observation of one's behavior during season changes.
21320	SAD can be difficult to diagnose for the reason it is difficult to determine from other forms of depression. A physician will ask if the symptoms have been experienced for at least two years consecutive and if it was the same season. Also questions whether the depression periods were followed by seasons wherein you did not feel depressed.
21321	The dotor determines the cysts through their appearance and may refer the patient to a dermatologist for treatment.
21322	After talking to you about your symptoms and examining your scalp and skin, the doctor may diagnose seborreic dermatitis. A skin biopsy or other tests may sometimes be necessary to confirm the diagnosis of seborrheic dermatitis and as well as rule out other types of dermatitis.
21324	The doctor performs a neurological exam testing the patient's reflexes, muscle tone, muscle strength, sensory function, posture, coordination and balance. He or she may also recommend blood tests to check for infections that may have triggered the condition. To detect brain abnormalities, the doctor also recommends scans or tests such as an electroencephalogram, magnetic resonance imaging, positron emission tomography, and single-photon emission computerized tomography.
21325	The semantic-pragmatic disorder can be diagnosed by observation of the child's speech development during his growing up years.
21326	Diagnosis is made through physical examination and review of medical history of the person.
21327	Diagnosis is achieved by means of thorough ear examination, hearing tests, head CT scan or head MRI, and an EEG.
21328	A pattern of the symptoms and behavior is used as the basis for the physical and occupational therapist to establish diagnosis of sensory integration dysfunction.
21329	Diagnosis of sensory neuropathy is often based on the symptoms present in the patient.
21331	Separation anxiety can be diagnosed by observing the child's behaviors with regards to separation experiences or when he has to work on things by himself.
21332	The most effective diagnostic procedure to establish diagnosis of sepsis is through blood examination.
21333	The doctor examines the patients for signs and symptoms and any recent infections to determine where the infection originated. To discover the bacteria causing the infection, fluid samples from within the affected joint is taken for examination. The patient may also undergo blood tests to check whether the if bacteria are present in the bloodstream. The doctor may also recommend X-rays and other imaging tests.
21334	To diagnose the condition a physician will collect and analyze blood samples, measure heart rate and respiration rate. ECG is also used to check abnormalities in heart rhythm. A physician might also use a fingertip sensor to check the oxygen level in the blood. In worse cases a surgery is done to remove dead tissue.
21335	Septicaemia can be diagnosed through blood tests in search of bacteria infestations, as well as immunodeficiency problems.
21336	Diagnosis is made through physical examination, blood culture, urine culture test, CBC, platelet count and by examination of blood gases.
21337	The magnetic resonance demonstration of hypoplastic optic tracts can provide diagnosis for Septo-optic dysplasia.
21338	Indistinguishable associated signs and symptoms results to the difficulty in firm diagnosis of Serious Digitalis Intoxication. The latest development of a radioimmunoassay designed to measure accurate serum concentrations of digoxin.
21339	Diagnosis to confirm the presence of Seronegative spondyloarthropathy is made through blood tests or serological tests and physical examination of the patient.
21340	The condition cannot be tested by any single means. The doctor uses tests to rule out other conditions. Such tests may include measurement of any drugs taken or abused by the patient, checking of hormone levels, and assessing key body functions affected by the condition.
21341	Symptoms present and careful analysis of the patient's medical and medication history will help in diagnosing serum sickness.
21342	A probable case of SARS have symptoms of a high fever and history of close contact with a person diagnosed with SARS within the last 10 days or travel to any area that have reported local transmission of SARS. ELISA (Enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay) test, Immunofluorescence assay and PCR (polymerase chain reaction) test are three possible diagnostic tests that have emerged but are not fully established to be completely reliable.
21343	Chest x-ray For laboratory validation: Cell culture of SARS-CoV, exposure of SARS-CoV ribonucleic acid by the overturn transcription polymerase chain reaction (PCR) test, or detection of serum antibodies to SARS-CoV.
21344	Doctors perform a physical examination on the patient by checking reflexes and response to painful stimuli as well as the pupil size. Blood samples are also taken to check complete blood count, electrolytes, glucose, and liver function, carbon monoxide poisoning, or drug overdose. The doctor may also perform a spinal tap or brain scans.
21345	A diagnosis of Severe combined immunodeficiency is generally based on the complete medical history in combination with physical examination. Confirming diagnosis is achieved with the aid of multiple blood tests. For newborns, there is still no available standard testing because of the non-uniformity of genetic defect. Usually, SCID is only detected during the sixth month because of the presence of persistent and chronic infections.
21346	Diagnosis is made through blood testing to evaluate hormone levels, vascular assessments to determine if there is blockage in the blood vessels, sensory testing and nocturnal penile tumescence and rigidity tests.
21347	Diagnosis is made through undergoing MRI examination of the brain, CT Scan and X-rays. It may also make use of Angiogram to visualize and check arteries in the brain and neck and lumbar puncture or the spinal tap.
21348	Diagnosis is made through the blood tests and determining the levels of sugar in the body.
21349	People with lesion that do not response to normal medications are required to undergo a blood test in order to monitor the change in the level of lymphocytes in the blood. After which, a skin biopsy is often ordered to confirm diagnosis and to rule out other possible causes of the lesion.
21350	A blood test will be ordered by the physician if there are suspicions of Sezary's lymphoma on a characteristic skin lesion that does not heal with normal medication. A skin biopsy is also carried out to confirm diagnosis and prevent incidents of misdiagnosis.
21351	Physician may initially suspect SBS if caregivers give vague or changing information about what happened to the sick child. Oftentimes it is hard to treat SBS for the reason that there are no clear signs of abuse. Physicians ask for the victim's medical history, physical exam and blood tests are done. Imaging tests are also done such as CT scan, x-rays or MRI for injury and bleeding problems. Other test may include lumbar puncture to check if there is blood in the spinal fluid.
21353	The overlapping clinical features make it more difficult to diagnose Sharp Syndrome. To ensure proper diagnosis, medical professionals follow original criteria that will help them to diagnose the presence of Sharp Syndrome.
21354	Early diagnosis would be vital in treating the insufficiency. Diagnosis is achieved by carrying out specific blood tests to measure the hormone level. It may also be necessary to undergo CT scan of the head aimed at ruling out pituitary abnormalities like tumors.
21355	Physical examination, skin tests and blood tests are among the primary basis for diagnosing shellfish allergy or any extreme sensitivity to certain types of shellfish.
21356	Diagnosis of signs and symptoms in addition to stool examination for occult blood are necessary in achieving diagnosis for Shigellosis.
21357	Doctors usually diagnose shin splints based on the patient's medical history and results of a physical exam. X-rays or other imaging studies may be conducted to help doctors rule out other conditions, such as a tiny cracks in a bone often caused by overuse.
21358	Diagnosis is easier through visual examination if the skin rash have appeared, without the rash; it would be more difficult to difficult shingles. There are also laboratory tests available to help in diagnosis of Shingles
21359	Diagnosis of shock is established by means of the patient's symptoms in combination with other criteria. There are also laboratory exams aimed to provide diagnosis for shock.
21360	Diagnostic procedures include: ò Chem-20 aimed at discovering signs of malabsorption ò Complete Blood Count (CBC) which can reveal anemia ò Fecal fat test
21361	Characteristic history and findings on Echocardiogram and electrophysiologic testing can provide diagnosis of Short QT Syndrome.
21362	Prenatal diagnosis for families who are at risk of having the syndrome is through prenatal ultrasound because the main features of SRP syndrome, which are short bones, ribs and small chest are visible in this method. It is very difficult to diagnose Short rib-polydactyly syndrome.
21363	Patients may be referred to pediatricians specializing in bone abnormalities or hormone dysfunction to assess dwarfism-related factors. The doctor measures the patient's height, weight, and head circumference to identify abnormal growth. The patient may also be examined through his or her facial and skeletal features that may be associated any dwarfism disorders. The doctor may also recommend imaging tests to detect skull and skeleton abnormalities. Genetic tests may also be undergone by a patient but does not usually help doctors in making an accurate diagnosis.
21364	Diagnosis is made through physical examination of the patient as well as undergoing imaging tests such as X-ray or MRI.
21365	Diagnosis is made through physical examination of the patient and laboratory examination of the bursal fluid.
21366	Genetic testing is widely available for the clinical and prenatal testing of Shprintzen syndrome. Fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) testing has the capacity to detect submicroscopic deletion of chromosome 22.
21367	There is still no specific diagnostic procedure to confirm the diagnosis of Shulman-upshaw syndrome. Diagnosis is often based on the symptoms and blood tests like blood count and blood film.
21368	Shwachman syndrome may seem to be difficult to diagnose because of the discrepancy and intermittent nature of some clinical features of the syndrome. Evidence of exocrine pancreatic dysfunction and abnormal low number of neutrophil granulocytes can be used as basis for diagnosis along with other physical symptoms like skeletal abnormalities and short stature.
21369	Shwachman-Diamond syndrome is most of the time diagnosed during infancy or newborn period; oftentimes due to malabsorption presentations and intermittent infections. Clinical symptoms and characteristic features are useful in confirming diagnosis of the syndrome because some symptoms are often discontinuous and varying.
21371	There are no specific tests to confirm diagnosis of Shy-Drager syndrome; some tests use in confirming diagnosis includes plasma norepinephrine levels and MRI of head to rule out other disorders.
21372	Symptoms, history and physical findings can be of great help in diagnosing Sialadenitis. One or more of the following test might be necessary to confirm diagnosis of the disease: ò Sialography ò X-rays to detect salivary stones ò Magnetic Resonance Imaging or Computed Tomography Scan to detect tumors and stones that are not detectable through X-rays
21374	The disease can be diagnosed by biopsy and physical examination.
21375	Sick building syndrome can be diagnosed by the symptoms present in not just one but a multitude of persons working at the same office building.
21376	The doctor establishes a connection between the patient's symptoms and an abnormal heart rhythm. The patient may undergo an electrocardiogram, ECG, and electrophysiologic testing.
21377	Hemoglobin electrophoresis is a special blood test that doctors use to observe and distinguish the movement of the hemoglobin. It is often used to diagnose older children and adults.
21378	Algorithmic diagnosis of signs and symptoms in combination with some essential diagnostic workups like blood smear for red cell morphology, chemistry panel and iron-binding capacity is used as part of establishing initial diagnosis. Bone marrow examination can provide a more definitive diagnosis.
21381	Hypertension can be detected via blood pressure measurement.
21382	Patient's history of exposure to silica dust, physical examination and pulmonary function test are initial steps to diagnose Silicosis. Chest X-ray and CT scan can provide more detailed analysis to confirm diagnosis of Silicosis.
21383	Genetic tests for Silver-Russell dwarfism have recently been developed' however it cannot guarantee accurate and efficient results yet.
21385	Diagnosis of Simpson-Golabi-Behmel syndrome is usually based on the clinical features noticed in the individual. Genetic testing might be necessary to confirm diagnosis in some cases.
21386	Diagnosis is usually done through blood tests. However, doctors may also recommend futher laboratory tests to rule out other conditions.
21387	Patients with hiccups that last for more than 48 hours, undergo a physical examination from a doctor. If an underlying medical condition is suspected as the cause, the doctor may recommend tests such as blood tests, chest X-ray, ear exam, and fluoroscopy. If the cause is still unclear, more tests may be conducted depending on the condition.
21388	Confirming diagnosis for Sino-auricular heart block is possible with some diagnostic procedures like: ò Electrocardiogram ò Echocardiogram ò Tilt-table ò Electrophysiology ò 24-hour heart monitor ò Blood tests
21389	Diagnosis is made through physical examination and undergoing imaging tests such as MRI, CT Scan, X-rays and Biopsy.
21390	Multiple biopsy of affected area is done to confirm etiological diagnosis this is applicable to suspected Acute Fungal Sinusitis. With a CT scan of the sinuses Nosocomial Acute Sinusitis is confirmed. For Chronic Sinusitis a CT scan, tissue sample for Cultures and Histology is performed. A procedure known as nasal endoscopy is performed by ENT specialists to diagnose sinus infection.
21391	Diagnosis is made through the use of physical examination and undergoing imaging tests such as MRI, CT Scan and undergoing EEG and ECG.
21392	Careful evaluation of the symptoms and underlying medical condition like the presence of tumors may lead to the diagnosis of Sipple syndrome. Specific diagnostic procedures may be carried out to confirm the diagnosis. The use of CT scan and MRI may lead to discovery of tumors developing in multiple glands.
21393	The diagnosis of Sirenomelia is based on the existence and presentation of completely fused lower extremities.
21395	High level of plant sterols in the blood will confirm diagnosis of sitosterolemia through a special diagnostic test.
21396	Persons with situs inversus, X-linked are unaware of their condition until they seek out medical attention for a condition that is not connected with the existing condition.
21397	Sixth disease can be diagnosed based on the symptoms shown by the patient.
21398	Accurate diagnosis is achieved by means of thorough analysis of history of condition and the symptoms present in the individual in combination of complete eye examination.
21398	The doctor reviews the patient's medical history and uses various tests to diagnose Sjogren's syndrome. Such tests include blood tests, eye tests, imaging, biopsy, urine sample, and slit-lamp exam.
21399	Skeletal dysplasia can be diagnosed through genetic testing and MRI.
21400	If there are mole suspected to cause cancer a visit to the dermatologist is advised. Biopsy is done for suspicious area of skin. If the test reveals that the patient has skin cancer other test are performed such as blood tests, chest x-ray and others. Other people can determine skin cancer on their own just by doing skin self-examination.
21400	A sudden odd skin growth or any bothersome changes in the skin usually lead to a suspicion of skin cancer. A more definite diagnosis can be obtained from a biopsy of skin sample.
21401	It is mainly based on the appearance of the growth of the skin. Skin tags are most likely to occur in areas where rubbing of clothing over skin happens.
21401	Skin tags are diagnosed based on their presence on the skin of an affected person.
21402	Doctors easily diagnose the patient through the presence of rashes. Pregnant women or patients with weak immune systems undergo blood tests to determine their immunity to the infection or whether they were recently infected.
21403	Before consulting a doctor you can ask someone or your spouse to keep a record if you are snoring loudly or trouble in breathing. You can also use a recorder to record snoring or difficulty in breathing. With the record in hand consult a physician he will examine your mouth and nose to check for obstructions and might perform other tests like endoscopy of nose and throat, x-rays or CT scan of the head.
21404	Polysomnography test is performed at a sleep centre and monitors the sleeping habits of the patient.
21404	Polysomnography test is performed at a sleep centre and monitors the sleeping habits of the patient.
21405	The patient undergoes a physical or psychological exam in order for the doctor to identify any contributing factors. An abnormal heart rhythm, a seizure disorder, or panic attacks may contribute to sleepwalking. Some doctors may recommend an observation or tests in an overnight sleep lab.
21406	One can be diagnosed of a slipped disc based on the symptoms exhibited.
21408	The following test and procedures may be used in establishing diagnosis for small cell lung cancer: ò Physical exam and history in combination with Chest X-ray ò CT scan ò PET (positron emission tomography) scan ò Bronchoscopy ò Sputum cytology ò Fine needle aspiration biopsy of the lung ò Thoracentesis ò Thoracoscopy
21409	The disease can be diagnosed by using a hydrogen test procedure, which measures the glucose levels of the small intestine as well as the presence of bacteria.
21410	Diagnosis is made through Barium Contrast Study of the small intestine, Upper GI tract endoscopy, CT Scan of the abdomen or an abdominal ultrasound to determine the bulky tumors and to rule out any spread of the cancer cells and colonoscopy.
21411	The presence of firm, deep seated pustules in the same stage of development with no apparent cause along with high fever may indicate smallpox, which can be confirmed by means of laboratory tests including microscopic examination of smears from scrapings of lesion to detect the presence of virus in the patient's blood.
21413	High resolution chromosome analysis is useful to confirm diagnosis of Smith-Magenis syndrome.
21415	Magnetic resonance imaging, histological, immunohistochemical, ultrasound evaluation and skin biopsy may be useful in the diagnosis of Sneddon syndrome. At present there is still no exact diagnostic procedure to provide exact diagnosis of this syndrome.
21416	The doctor conducts a physical examination and takes the patient's medical history. The patient's partner or parent may be asked when and how snoring occurs to assess the severity of the condition. The patient may also be referred to an ear, nose and throat doctor or sleep specialist for further studies and evaluation.
21417	This disorder is diagnosed by experts in the field of psychiatry and other mental health professions.
21419	Biopsy is the only way to diagnose if a tumor is benign or cancerous (malignant) either by needle or surgical biopsy.
21421	The skin is inspected by a doctor to diagnose the condition. If the doctor has doubts about it, the patient may undergo tests such as a biopsy.
21422	The doctor takes note of the patient's symptoms as well as conduct tests such as sigmoidoscopy or ultrasound to assess whether there are rectal ulcers. For instance, if the tests show a thickening of the rectal wall and internal anal sphincter, solitary rectal ulcer syndrome may be determined.
21424	A physician will perform a physical exam and throat culture. During the examination the physician will look at the throat for swelling and redness and for white stripes or pus in the tonsils. A strep test may also be performed to check for bacteria that causes strep throat.
21425	At present, there are still no exact diagnostic procedure or laboratory tests that can prove that an individual is affected by Soto's syndrome.
21426	Symptoms are the best basis for a diagnosis along with a thorough physical examination and interview on the possible causes of the allergic reaction. To confirm the soy allergy, a skin test is usually administered along with blood tests.
21427	Diagnosis is made through physical examination and undergoing blood tests and endoscopy.
21428	The diagnosis of spasmodic dysphonia is usually achieved by means of identifying the manner how the symptoms developed in addition to careful examination of the individual.
21429	Electrodiagnostic tests are part of physical and neurological examinations in the diagnosis of spasmodic torticollis in combination with complete patient history.
21430	This condition may be diagnosed through interview of the patient affected to determine his symptoms, and through physical examination, and imaging tests.
21431	Screening and the diagnosis for spermatic cysts entail a physical exam. Diagnostic tests such as transillumination and ultrasound are also conducted to confirm the initial diagnosis.
21432	The doctor performs a physical examination during which the patient may feel discomfort when the doctor palpates the mass. The patient may also undergo diagnostic tests such as transillumination and ultrasound. If the latter is not conclusive, the doctor recommends a magnetic resonance imaging .
21434	Blood test like cell blood count (CBC) can help diagnose Spherocytosis.
21436	Laboratory tests are done to diagnose spider angiomas. Medical history are also taken note for consideration.
21438	Diagnosis is based on the amount of deposits present in the skin samples in combination with other symptoms and criteria.
21439	AFP screening and detailed fetal ultrasounds are methods helpful in detecting Spina bifida during pregnancy.
21440	Complete physical examinations, study of symptoms and diagnostic tests like X-ray, CT scan and MRI around the spinal area can help in confirming diagnosis, location and severity of spinal cord injury.
21441	MRI and bone scanning are essential tools in confirming diagnosis of spinal cord neoplasm.
21442	The presence of symptoms will aid diagnosis for Spinal Muscular Atrophy. SMN gene test are considered in some cases as well as Electromyography (EMG) and biopsy of the muscle.
21443	Diagnosis is usually based on the presence of clinical and physical symptoms related to spinal shock.
21444	Diagnosis for Spinal Stenosis can be achieved by means of CT scan or MRI.
21445	If spinal tumor is suspected, one or a combination of the following diagnostic tests may be done: spinal magnetic resonance imaging (MRI); computerized tomography (CT) scan; myelogram; and biopsy.
21446	The most accurate and clear-cut way to arrive at a diagnosis of spinocerebellar ataxia is by means of DNA analysis. The image of a shrunken cerebellum can be seen by means of MRI.
21449	Splenomegaly is usually detected during a physical examination with your physician. Diagnostic examinations include blood tests, CT scan and other tests to find out what caused the disorder.
21452	Diagnostic procedures for spondylarthropathy include serology testing, X-ray of the sacroiliac joints, MRI on lumbar spine, and serum urate to detect rheumatoid factor. The choice of diagnostic procedure will greatly depend on the clinical presentation of the condition.
21453	Common symptoms, family history, and the presence of HLA-B27 indicate spondylitis.
21457	Diagnoses are usually based on diagnosis of signs and symptoms; no diagnostic procedure can give diagnosis of the condition but mainly on the presentation of the illness.
21459	Diagnosis can be established by means of the triad of findings for the disease which are fever, rash and history of tick bite. Culture of body fluids like urine and sputum, CBC and other tests used to trace evidence of infection can help in providing diagnosis for spotted fever.
21461	Skin biopsy can confirm diagnosis and also essential in grading the cancer. Grading or staging can also be based on how deep is the carcinoma invasion.
21462	Squints are diagnosed by reflection tests as well as physical eye examinations.
21463	Diagnosis is based on the algorithmic diagnosis of signs and symptoms.
21464	For the diagnosis of this medical condition, a medical history, the comparison and assessment of the exhibited symptoms, and the physical examination/observation of the person affected, are performed.
21465	The doctor performs a physical examination and asks about the patient's medical and family history. To confirm his or her diagnosis, the doctor recommends an electrocardiogram, stress test, chest X-ray, echocardiogram, nuclear stress test, coronary angiography, and blood tests.
21466	The patient undergoes an abdominal X-ray or an abdominal computerized tomography scan as well as tests for bacterial overgrowth in the small intestine, for poor fat absorption, or for other factors causing the symptoms.
21467	The doctor evaluates the condition by asking about the child's health history. He or she may suggest an evaluation from a speech-language therapist to assess the child's overall speech and language abilities.
21468	Physicians diagnose staph infection by checking tissue sample or nasal secretions for signs of the bacteria and are then cultured.
21469	Doctors diagnose the condition by checking the presence of the bacteria in a tissue sample or nasal secretions. Newer tests are also available that detect staph DNA after a few hours, but they are expensive and not yet used widely.
21470	Staphylococcal infections affecting the skin are usually diagnosed by mere physical observation, without the need for laboratory testing. More severe infections however, such as infection of the bloodstream, and endocarditis require blood or other fluid culture. Laboratory testing confirms the diagnosis.
21471	Staphylococcus aureus food poisoning may easily be diagnosed by checking on the symptoms, and determining how they started. A sample of the food taken which caused the symptoms may be checked through laboratory testing to see if it is contaminated. This will help confirm the diagnosis.
21472	Little evidence found during eye examination causes misdiagnosis of stargardt disease.
21473	There is currently no specific diagnostic test for STARI. However, DNA tests of skin or blood specimens, or blood testing may help diagnose this condition. Also, the comparison of the known symptoms and the symptoms felt by the patient may aid to determine STARI.
21474	The patient undergoes an abdominal X-ray or an abdominal computerized tomography scan as well as tests for bacterial overgrowth in the small intestine, for poor fat absorption, or for other factors causing the symptoms.
21475	Diagnosis is based on the appearance of the cysts.
21476	To diagnose steatorrhea, medical history, and stool sample diagnosis may be helpful.
21477	The condition may only be discovered by a doctor during a routine medical examination. The doctor orders blood tests to rule out other conditions. A patient suspected of having the condition will likely undergo tests such as liver-function test, ultrasound, computerized tomography, magnetic resonance imaging, and a liver biopsy.
21478	Patients are examined through a brain autopsy to correctly identify the condition.
21479	Diagnosing Stein-Leventhal syndrome may be difficult because of the wide range of symptoms and the changes in presentation of the symptoms; usually a pelvic ultrasound can be a fundamental tool to detect the presence of the syndrome.
21481	Diagnosis for Stevens - Johnson syndrome can be achieved by careful evaluation of the patient's medical and medication history, exposure to toxins, along with skin examination of the presenting lesions.
21486	Sticky eye may be diagnosed by merely looking at it, and comparing the symptoms exhibited and the symptoms suffered by the affected.
21487	The symptoms of SPS suggest the diagnosis.
21488	To arrive at a diagnosis for stiff-person syndrome, laboratory tests, and other special tests, such as anti-GAD antibodies, anti-pancreatic islet cell antibodies and anti-amphiphysin antibodies, are preliminarily performed. MRI or CT scanning of the brain and chest, EMG, EEG, and lumbar puncture, may confirm the diagnosis and rule out other neurological disorder.
21489	It is diagnosed on a basis of clinical features of the illness, with the results of several common tests combined. Persistent arthritis (lasting at least 6 weeks) is usually a symptom. A rash is typically visible on the body, and the patients usually suffer from high, spiking fevers.
21490	Most psychiatrists use the diagnostic criteria used in diagnosing PTSD or acute stress disorder to evaluate Stockholm syndrome.
21491	Stokes-Adams attacks is diagnosed based on the history of the patient, and the assessment of the fainting attacks. The ECG may help show asystole or ventricular fibrillation during the attacks.
21492	The patient may have a gastroscopic exam, upper GI series, or a fecal occult blood test to help diagnose stomach cancer.
21493	The condition is diagnosed based on symptoms manifested by the patient and results of a physical exam as well as the occurrence of similar cases in the community. A stool sample is examined to rule out a possible bacterial or parasitic infection.
21494	The disease can be diagnosed by endoscopy as well as physical examination of the given symptoms.
21495	Blood tests may be administered to determine if any infection is present. Scrapings of the lining of the mouth may be sent to the laboratory for microscopic evaluation, or cultures of the mouth may be done to find out if an infectious agent may be the cause of the problem.
21496	The doctor reviews the patient's medical history, examine the mouth and ask the patient to describe the symptoms as well as his or her oral habits and oral care routine. The patient undergoes a general medical examination to check for signs of any associated conditions. The patient may also undergo some tests such as complete blood count and other blood tests, allergy tests, and oral swab culture or biopsy. He or she may be referred to specialists for further screening, diagnosis, and possibly treatment.
21497	During eye examinations, ophthalmologists, orthoptists, and optometrists typically use a cover test to help in the diagnosis of strabismus. If the eye being tested is the strabismic eye, then it will focus on the object after the "good" eye is covered, as long as the vision in this eye is adequate enough. If the "good" eye is being tested, there will be no change in fixation, as it is already focused. Depending on the direction that the strabismic eye deviates, the direction of deviation can be assessed.
21498	The doctor will likely do a rapid strep test in the office, using a cotton swab to take a sample of the fluids at the back of the patient's throat.
21499	Group B strep infection is diagnosed by a laboratory test of spinal fluid or blood.
21500	Stretch marks are not considered a disease but it is also seriously taken into consideration as it has been linked to other diseases.
21501	Stretch marks are not considered a disease but it is also seriously taken into consideration as it has been linked to other diseases.
21502	Neurological tests CT scans MRI scans Doppler ultrasound Arteriography
21503	Diagnosis is done on the microscopic identification of larvae (rhabditiform and occasionally filariform) in the stool or duodenal fluid. Examination of serial samples may be needed, and not always sufficient, because direct stool examination is relatively insensitive.
21505	In the "incomplete" forms of SWS, CNS angiomas arise without cutaneous features and therefore, no suspicion of SWS occurs until a seizure or other neurologic problem develops. Because of this, the diagnosis of SWS is not always straightforward.
21506	Physicians will ask about the medical history of a child especially the time the stuttering started. A speech-language therapist can also evaluate the children's overall language and speech abilities.
21507	A person can easily diagnose if a sty has appeared in his eyelid just by looking at the symptoms carefully. If the sty or lump is recurring then it is best to seek medical advice most especially from an ophthalmologist.
21508	Diagnosis of SSPE is often difficult due to a normal CSF profile - noted changes in the CSF profile only include a marked elevation in CSF immunoglobulin.
21509	Once a patient is experiencing progressive loss of consciousness after a head injury, the doctor usually presume that it is caused by a hemorrhage inside the skull until proven otherwise. The patient may need to undergo imaging tests such as computerized tomography scan or magnetic resonance imaging scan. These tests can define the position and size of a hematoma.
21510	Once a patient is experiencing progressive loss of consciousness after a head injury, the doctor usually presume that it is caused by a hemorrhage inside the skull until proven otherwise. The patient may need to undergo imaging tests such as computerized tomography scan or magnetic resonance imaging scan. These tests can define the position and size of a hematoma.
21511	A gynecologist or urologist determines whether the problem requires treatment from a specialist or clinic. The doctor begins a comprehensive infertility examination of both partners. The male undergoes tests to determine whether the testicles produce enough healthy sperm and the sperm is ejaculated effectively into the woman's vagina are impaired. He may undergo tests such as general physical examination, semen analysis, detailed analysis of the sperm, hormone testing, and transrectal and scrotal ultrasound. The female also undergoes tests to check whether her reproductive organs are healthy and functional. She may also undergo fertility tests such as ovulation testing, hysterosalpingography, laparoscopy, hormone testing, ovarian reserve testing, genetic testing, and pelvic ultrasound. The doctor may also recommend changes in the couple's sexual habits.
21512	There is presently no known established and universally effective thera- peutic treatment for SSADH deficiency. In the longer term, medical advancements made in gene therapy or stem cell transplantation may provide an avenue to cure SSADH. In the shorter term, several therapies have been tried or are currently being considered.
21515	ECG is the most common way to diagnose SADS among all children and young adults. Another test used is the exercise test which is a low-level test that is used to allow individuals to exercise for about 10 or more minutes without reaching a heart rate more than 150-160 beats per minute.
21516	Sudden cardiac arrests are almost never predicted. In most cases, patients may seem healthy. However, regular medical checkups may help physicians identify risk factors for conditions that might lead to sudden cardiac arrest.
21518	There is still no diagnostic test which could be done on victims of SIDS.
21519	Sudeck's atrophy can be diagnosed based on the symptoms showed by the patient as well as by X-ray results.
21521	Prenatal diagnosis of sulfite oxidase deficiency has been done by measuring s-sulfocysteine in amniotic fluid, by an assay of sulfite oxidase activity in chorionic villi, and by DNA analysis.
21522	There is no need for further laboratory testing to diagnose sun stroke.
21523	Patients should see a doctor when their sunburn is too severe with blisters in a large area of the skin as well as signs & symptoms of an infection. Severe sunburn may also be accompanied with high fever, extreme pain, confusion, vomiting, or diarrhea. Medications should be applied whenever sunburn does not respond to home treatment in a few days.
21524	Superficial vein thrombophlebitis may be diagnosed by the use of the following: duplex ultrasound, imaging studies, such as, CT and MRI scans, magnetic resonance venography, and blood tests.
21525	The diagnosis of of this disease is clinical. The key features generally develop over time; although the full-blown picture may be relatively easy to recognize, the early or restricted cases are much more challenging.
21526	The inflammation can be diagnosed based on the symptoms given by the patient.
21529	In a recent analysis conducted in 2003, MRI images from 27 patients fulfilling the diagnostic criteria of Susac's syndrome were reviewed. Multifocal supratentorial lesions were found in all patients. Most lesions were small, though some were larger than 7 mm. All 27 patients possessed corpus callosum lesions. These all possessed a punched-out appearance on follow up MRI. Though most commonly involved white matter, many patients also had lesions in deep grey matter structures, as well as leptomeningeal enhancement.
21530	The patient undergoes a physical examination and other tests to determine the cause of the condition. The patient may be referred to a specialist who may conduct a barium X-ray, endoscopy, or esophageal muscle test.
21531	Diagnosis for sweaty sock syndrome will include testing for any fungal infection or athlete's foot done by taking a small surface of the affected skin examnined under a microscope.
21533	Sweet's syndrome may be diagnosed by the distinctive rash, blood tests, and tissue samples.
21534	Swift disease can be diagnosed by the mentioned symptoms as well as detection of trace amounts of mercury found in the blood serum.
21535	The inside of the ear and the ear canal may appear red and swollen. The ear canal may also appear scaly, with flaking skin.
21536	Specific diagnosis for this kind of infection is not yet available. The best solution is to know where the individual swam and confirming that swimmer's itch happens in that place.
21536	Doctors can diagnose the condition if they are informed that the itching developed after swimming or if other cases also occur the same place.
21537	The lesions can be diagnosed by skin biopsy and by the presence of the symptoms on the patient.
21538	The doctor may perform blood tests, imaging studies, and a lymph node biopsy.
21539	Evaluation of delayed puberty usually shows elevation of gonadotropins, indicating that the pituitary is providing the signal for puberty but the gonads are failing to respond. The next steps of the evaluation typically include checking a karyotype and imaging of the pelvis. The karyotype reveals XY chromosomes and the imaging demonstrates the presence of a uterus but missing ovaries (the streak gonads are not usually seen by most imaging).
21540	The diagnosis of Sydenham's is based on the doctor's observation of the patient's involuntary movements. Unlike tics, the movements associated with chorea are not repetitive; and unlike the behavior of hyperactive children, the movements are not done on purpose.
21541	Diagnosis is made through eye examination and review of the patient's history and undergoing the Vogt-Koyanag-Harada Differential diagnosis.
21543	The following may be done to diagnose syncope: tilt table test, holter monitor, echocardiogram, and electrophysiology study.
21544	Should there be any congenital syndromes or associated medical conditions, the patients should be scheduled for operative clearance with the preoperative evaluation service of the hospital where the surgery will be performed.
21545	Diagnosis include: maintained hypervolemia; suppression of renin-angiotensin system; no equal concentration of atrial natriuretic peptide; low blood urea nitrogen (BUN); low creatinine; low uric acid; and low albumin.
21546	Syndrome X is a diagnosis of exclusion and will typically necessitate both a clinical diagnosis, appropriate stress testing, and a coronary angiogram that meet the above criteria.
21547	Although there is no officially established method of diagnosing synesthesia, some guidelines have been developed, though not everyone agrees on these standards.
21548	The baby undergoes a physical examination during which the doctor feels for head abnormalities such as suture ridges and looks for facial deformities. The doctor may also order imaging studies and genetic testing.
21549	Radiographic findings are commonly diagnostic. Computed tomography (CT) scans and CT arthrograms also may be used, paticularly for demonstrating noncalcified intra-articular bodies. MRI typically helps establish the diagnosis, and the images demonstrate the true extent of the disease.
21550	Synovial sarcoma is diagnosed through the use of the following: biopsy, immunohistochemical analysis, ultrastructural findings, and genetic testing.
21551	In addition to the clinical presentation (warm, red, and swollen joints), the diagnosis may be done with Synovial Fluid Analysis.
21552	To diagnose syphilis, the doctor may scrape a small sample of cells from a sore to be analyzed by microscope in a lab.
21554	In rare instances, scalp syringomas can produce scarring alopecia, while on occasion, syringomas can be associated with milia and vermiculate atrophoderma.
21555	MRI (Magnetic Resonance Imaging) is the leading diagnostic tool that is used in determining SM.
21556	Diagnosis is by clinical suspicion, presence of autoantibodies (specifically anti-centromere and anti-scl70/anti-topoisomerase antibodies) and sometimes by biopsy.
21557	Skin biopsy can be done to confirm diagnosis of primary carnitine deficiency by demonstrating reduced carnitine transport in fibroblasts that express the transporter. Fibroblasts may be utilized for fatty acid oxidation studies or enzyme assay.
21558	Since patients with SLE can have a wide variety of symptoms and different combinations of organ involvement, no single test ensures the diagnosis of systemic lupus.
21559	Doctors can diagnose urticaria pigmentosa (cutaneous mastocytosis, see below) by observing the characteristic lesions that are dark-brown and fixed. A small skin sample (biopsy) may aid in confirming the diagnosis.
21560	Once the doctors suspect a lymphoma diagnosis they will do tests to confirm the diagnosis. This may include one or more biopsies (surgical removal of suspect tissue) which will be examined by an experienced pathologist to determine the type of cancer and how far it has spread.
21561	Criteria for diagnosis of idiopathic CD4 lymphocytopenia include: CD4 cell count less than 300/mm3 or a CD4 percent less than 20 of total lymphocytes on two or more measurements; lack of laboratory evidence of HIV infection; and absence of an alternative explanation for the CD4 lymphocytopenia.
21563	Tests that monitor the heart rate -- such as electrocardiogram (ECG), holter monitor, and event monitor -- can help in diagnosing tachycardia.
21564	Diagnosis is made through standard chest radiology and ultrasound.
21565	Taenia eggs and proglottids can be determined though microscopic identification. However, this technique is not possible during the first 3 months after the infection, prior to the development of adult tapeworms.
21566	Tailbone pain is diagnosed by studying the symptoms present in the patient.
21567	The doctor can find elevated blood pressure in over 50%lf of the patients with Takayasu disease. Abnormal sounds of blood movement through blood vessels can occaionally be heard with a stethoscope. Small notches in the ribs of the back of the chest have sometimes been found on routine chest x-rays and are felt to be a result of abnormal pulsations of blood vessels in these areas.
21568	Basis for diagnosis usually involve blood tests, angiography, MRA and MRI and other imaging tests such as CT scans and ultrasonography.
21570	Radiographs show the true gain in foot (ankle) dorsiflexion and confirm the appearance of an iatrogenic rockerbottom foot should one arise. Occasionally, radiographs are needed to diagnose clubfeet associated with tibial hemimelias.
21572	The patient's stool sample in the laboratory to check for eggs or tapeworm segments in the feces. For infections that involve tissues, the patient undergoes blood testing to check for the presence of antibodies in the blood that are produced in fighting the infection. Imaging tests may also suggest the diagnosis.
21573	Characteristic skeletal involvement is detectable during prenatal transvaginal ultrasonography as early as 13 weeks' gestation, when sufficient fetal skeletal ossification is present. Upper-limb abnormalities on prenatal sonograms suggest several syndromes in the differential diagnosis. After radial aplasia is seen, ultrasonography of the extremities, face, and kidneys is indicated.
21574	TD is commonly found in individuals with psychotic disorders (eg, schizophrenias, schizoaffective disorders, bipolar disorders) who are treated with antipsychotic medications, especially dopamine antagonists, for many years.
21575	Diagnosis is usually made by a podiatrist, physical therapist, neurologist, physiatrist or orthopedist. Patients report of their pain and a positive Tinel's sign are the first steps in evaluating the chances of tarsal tunnel syndrome.
21578	Genetic screening for carriers of Tay-Sachs disease is possible due to an inexpensive enzyme assay test is available. It detects lower levels of the enzyme called hexosaminidase A in serum.
21579	The dentist evaluates the condition by examining the patient's mouth and jaw, checking for tenderness in the jaw muscles and broken, missing, or poorly tooth aligned teeth. The patient may also undergo a series of X-rays of the mouth and jaw. The examination may detect other disorders. If an ear infection is suspected, the patient is referred to a specialist for further examination and treatment. If there is a psychological factor or sleep-related disorder is suspected, the patient may be referred to a therapist, counselor, or sleep specialist.
21580	Since telangiectasias are vascular lesions, they blanch when tested with diascopy.
21581	When HHT is suspected, physical examination concentrates on inspecting the whole skin for teleangiectasias, auscultation of the lungs and liver, and neurological examination.
21582	The doctor asks for the patient's symptoms and medical history and performs a physical exam particularly on the temporal arteries, which are usually tender, with a reduced pulse and a hard, cord-like feel and appearance. Blood tests or a biopsy is also done to confirm the diagnosis.
21584	The doctor performs a neurological exam testing the patient's reflexes, muscle tone, muscle strength, sensory function, posture, coordination and balance. He or she may also recommend blood tests to check for infections that may have triggered the condition. To detect brain abnormalities, the doctor also recommends scans or tests such as an electroencephalogram, magnetic resonance imaging, positron emission tomography, and single-photon emission computerized tomography.
21585	Diagnosis can be difficult for TMJ syndrome because it can imitate other disorders. The physician will have to check the patient's face and perform physical examination and study the patient's medical history. Scans such as CT scan and MRI are ordered to view the bony detail of the joint and the soft tissues of the joint which includes the disc. Other types of imaging used are tomography, and dental x-rays.
21586	There is rarely a need for diagnostic procedures to determine the onset of the disorder.
21587	Usually, the diagnosis can be made clinically. Typically, if the clinical history is consistent with Stevens-Johnson syndrome, and the skin lesion covers greater than 30% of the body surface area, the diagnosis of TEN is appropriate.
21588	The doctor reviews the patient's medical history, conducts a physical examine, and observes any signs and symptoms of the condition. Imaging tests may also be recommended to rule out other conditions or reveal any abnormalities in the tendon sheath or covering. Blood tests may also be recommend if an underlying causes such as rheumatoid arthritis is suspected.
21589	The doctor examines the elbow and applies pressure to, or move the affected area to evaluate the stiffness. An X-ray may be done to rule out other causes such as a fracture or arthritis. In rare cases, comprehensive imaging studies are done.
21590	Large tumors are more likely to be diagnosed at an early stage. Sacrococcygeal and cervical teratomas are usually detected by prenatal ultrasound. In rare instances, the tumor is so large that the fetus may be damaged or die. In the case of large sacrococcygeal teratomas, a significant portion of the fetus' blood flow is redirected toward the teratoma (a phenomenon called steal syndrome), leading to heart failure, or hydrops, of the fetus. In some cases, fetal surgery may be required.
21591	Imaging studies such as MRI and other laboratory tests are conducted to determine the onset of the disease.
21593	The condition is usually diagnosed in the examination of a newborn during which the doctor examines the baby's groin area. If the testicle is not in its normal location in the scrotum, the doctor diagnoses the condition. Imaging tests such as ultrasound and x-rays are used to locate the testes and confirm the diagnosis.
21594	Laboratory tests include blood tests, ultrasound and biopsy. A complete physical examination is also performed by the physician. If cancer is found more tests are ordered to check for the severity of it has spread to other parts of the body.
21594	Most testicular cancers are discovered intentionally or unintentionally through self-examination to check for lumps. In some cases, testicular cancer may be detected during a routine physical exam. For a definite diagnosis, the following tests may be recommended: ultrasound; blood tests; and sometimes a biopsy.
21595	The doctor examines the scrotum, testicles, abdomen, and groin to diagnose the condition. Sometimes, the doctor may need to confirm his or her diagnosis or identify another cause for the symptoms through tests such as urine tests or blood tests, scrotal ultrasound, nuclear scan of the testicles, or surgery.
21596	Diagnosis of the condition is based on symptoms as well as results of blood tests measuring the patient's testosterone levels. If the diagnosis is confirmed, the patient undergoes further testing to determine its cause. Such tests may include hormone testing, semen analysis, pituitary imaging, genetic studies, and testicular biopsy. Testing the patient's testosterone levels can help determine the appropriated medication dosage.
21597	Doctors diagnose tetanus based on a physical exam and symptoms of muscle spasms, stiffness and pain. Laboratory tests typically aren't helpful for diagnosing tetanus
21598	Diagnosis is made through occluding brachial artery to trigger cramps such, a sign that is named as Trosseau sign.
21599	Once the condition is suspected an MRI is performed to confirm diagnosis.
21600	Diagnosis is made through physical examination as well as undergoing imaging tests such as X-rays and CT Scan.
21601	Chest x-ray Enchocardiography
21602	In the emergency room, the doctor tests for sensory function and movement as well as asks about the circumstances of the accident in order to rule out spinal cord injury. However, emergency diagnostic tests are performed if the patient is not fully awake, has obvious weakness or neurological injury, or complains of neck pain. Diagnostic tests may include X-rays, computerized tomography scan, magnetic resonance imaging, and myelography. If spinal cord injury is suspected, the patient may be administered with traction to immobilize the spine, as well as high doses of methylprednisolone ,which is often given within eight hours of injury. The doctor further conducts a neurological examination a few days after the injury to determine its severity and predict the patient's extent of recovery. The patient may also undergo more diagnostic tests.
21604	The diagnosis of thalassemia trait and thalassemia major is made from microscopic examination of the blood, which manifests many small, pale red blood cells, and from other blood tests that show reduced levels of adult hemoglobin in the blood.
21605	The diagnosis of thalassemia trait and thalassemia major is made from microscopic examination of the blood, which manifests many small, pale red blood cells, and from other blood tests that show reduced levels of adult hemoglobin in the blood.
21606	The diagnosis of thalassemia trait and thalassemia major is made from microscopic examination of the blood, which manifests many small, pale red blood cells, and from other blood tests that show reduced levels of adult hemoglobin in the blood.
21607	Diagnosis is made through undergoing blood tests and urine tests to determine the presence and level of the thallium in the body.
21609	Diagnosis is made through undergoing laboratory examination to confirm blood thiamine and alpha-ketoglutarate, measuring urinary methylglyoxal and serum thyroid stimulating hormone.
21610	Diagnosing thoracic outlet syndrome can be hard because the symptoms and severity of the symptoms can vary greatly among people with the disorder.
21611	Throat cancer is usually diagnosed by an otorhinolaryngologist or a head and neck specialist, who will examine the inner and outer neck region for physical manifestations. A biopsy will then be done for more detailed analysis. In addition, computer tomography (CT) scans, magnetic resonance imaging (MRIs) scans, ultrasounds, and X-rays may also be recommended.
21612	A hematologist confirms the diagnosis and makes transfusion consultations.
21613	The doctor evaluates the signs and symptoms experienced by the patient. Since tests cannot definitely determine the condition, they are recommended only to rule out other conditions and narrow the diagnosis. Such tests may include blood tests, the Allen's test, arteriogram, and other tests and procedures that may assist in diagnosing the condition.
21615	Laboratory tests might include: full blood count, liver enzymes, vitamin B12 levels, renal function, folic acid levels, erythrocyte sedimentation rate, and peripheral blood smear. If the cause for the low platelet count remains unknown, bone marrow biopsy is often undertaken, to differentiate whether the low platelet count is due to decreased production or peripheral destruction.
21616	Diagnosis is commonly suspected at birth due to the fact that the appearance of the forearms is evident. To confirm the diagnosis skeletal x-ray and blood and bone marrow examination is done. Ultrasonography is done for prenatal diagnosis.
21618	Current clinical practice diagnostic criteria include thrombocytopenia, schistocytosis, and significant increases in serum LDH levels to suggest the diagnosis of TTP.
21619	The diagnosis of ITP is one of exclusion, where one has to make sure that there are no other blood abnormalities except for low platelet count and no physical signs except for signs of bleeding. Then, the secondary causes (often 5-10% of suspected ITP cases) should be excluded. Secondary causes could be leukemia, medications, lupus erythematosus, cirrhosis, HIV, hepatitis C, congenital causes, antiphospholipid syndrome, von Willebrand factor deficiency and others.
21620	Laboratory tests might include: liver enzymes, full blood count, renal function and erythrocyte sedimentation rate.
21621	Diagnosis includes undergoing CBC count with the peripheral blood smears, measurement of the prothrombine time or PT, use of D-dimer measurement and imaging examinations such as contrast venography, duplex ultrasonography or real-time B-mode ultrasonography, ventilation-perfusion scanning, MRI, angiography of the head, head CT Scan, chest radiography , doppler imaging and ECG.
21622	The doctor examines the affected veins and asks the patient about his or her discomfort. The doctor employs certain methods to determine whether the patient has superficial or deep vein thrombosis. Such methods may include ultrasound, CT or MRI scans, or blood test.
21623	Diagnosis depends on the effects on a specific vein or artery. Special x-rays and scanning are used to confirm diagnosis.
21625	For the microscope method, a sample or swab of the affected area is placed on a microscope slide. A single drop of 10% potassium hydroxide (KOH) solution is then placed on the slide. The KOH dissolves the skin cells but leaves the Candida untouched, so that when the slide is viewed under a microscope, the hyphae and pseudo spores of Candida can be seen.
21626	The following tests may be done to diagnose thymic carcinoma: chest x-ray; CT scan; MRI; needle biopsy; mediastinoscopy; and thoracoscopy.
21627	If the suspicion is high, some blood tests are often done to look for associated problems or possible spread. These include: full blood count, electrolytes, protein electrophoresis, antibodies to the acetylcholine receptor (indicative of myasthenia), liver enzymes and renal function
21628	Diagnosis is made through the use of CBC Count, blood tests and imaging examinations such as MRI, Ct San and ultrasonography.
21629	Diagnosis is typically done clinically.
21630	After a nodule is detected during a physical examination, a referral to an endocrinologist, or a thyroidologist is the best approach. Most frequently an ultrasound is performed to confirm the presence of a nodule, and assess the status of the whole gland.
21631	Chest radiography, CT scanning, and MRI generally are not used in the initial workup of a thyroid nodule, except in patients with clear metastatic disease at presentation. These tests are typically second-level diagnostic tools and are useful in preoperative patient assessment.
21633	Most helpful way to diagnose this disease is to perform a physical examination. Blood also helps in diagnosing thyroiditis and in some cases biopsy.
21634	Aside from the symptoms, CT scans are also used to determine the effects of neuralgia in the brain.
21635	The doctor reviews the patient's medical history and evaluates the symptoms. The doctor may also perform a neurological examination to examine and determine the location of the pain occurrence. It the condition is suspected, the patient may undergo magnetic resonance imaging scan of the head to determine if multiple sclerosis is the cause of the condition. The doctor may also recommend more tests to rule out other conditions.
21636	The best diagnosis is to visit a doctor immediately. The doctor will ask the size of the tick and how long it has been attached to the skin. The doctor will also examine the skin for any rashes if in cases that the doctor suspects that the symptoms the patient carries is related to a tick-borne illness a series of blood tests will be performed.
21637	Diagnosis is based on symptoms and upon finding an embedded tick, often on the scalp. In the absence of a tick, the differential diagnosis includes botulism and Guillain-Barre syndrome.
21638	The actual diagnosis of a tick-borne encephalitis (TBE) must be done in the laboratory because of the non-specific clinical features it presents.
21640	The disease can be diagnosed by undergoing CT scan and X-ray examinations.
21641	Diagnosis is made through microscopic examination of the nail or hair specimen, use of wood light and even undergoing a polymerase chain reaction tests.
21642	The doctor usually diagnoses the condition by looking at the affected skin. If standard treatments fail to cure the infection, the takes pustule samples to be examined in a laboratory.
21643	The doctor determines whether the condition is ringworm or another skin disorder by taking a sample of the skin or plucking hairs from the infected area and examines them under a microscope. If it is ringworm, a fungus shows. If negative but ringworm is still suspected, the samples are further tested in a lab.
21644	The doctor only examines the skin to diagnose the condition. If another condition is suspected, the doctor takes skin samples from the infected area to be examined under a microscope.
21645	The doctor may examine the ears to see if an accumulation of earwax may be causing or contributing to the ringing in the ears.
21646	Tiredness in children can be diagnosed based on the symptoms given by the patient.
21647	Examination of an individual who is experiencing or who has just experienced Todd's paralysis can help physicians identify the origin of the seizure.
21649	THS is usually diagnosed via exclusion, and as such a vast amount of laboratory tests are needed to rule out other causes of the patients symptoms. These tests include a complete blood count (CBC), thyroid function tests and serum protein electrophoresis.
21650	Tongue neoplasm may be diagnosed with an oral examination
21651	The doctor performs a neurological exam testing the patient's reflexes, muscle tone, muscle strength, sensory function, posture, coordination and balance. He or she may also recommend blood tests to check for infections that may have triggered the condition. To detect brain abnormalities, the doctor also recommends scans or tests such as an electroencephalogram, magnetic resonance imaging, positron emission tomography, and single-photon emission computerized tomography.
21652	Visible symptoms and physical examination are performed to diagnose tonsillitis. The doctor will particularly check the ears, eyes, nose and throat to look for swelling, redness and secretions. Another thing that the doctor might do is to perform a throat culture.
21653	Tooth decay is easily seen based on the symptoms as well as the present structure of the teeth during a dental check-up.
21654	A simple toothache can be easily diagnosed by an individual by looking at the symptoms. If you are not sure which tooth is affected a visit to the dentist will help determine the tooth. The dentist will basically examine the gums and teeth for swelling, tooth damage and redness. A x-ray maybe necessary to check for tooth decay, cracks or jaw bone problems.
21655	When physical examination of the newborn manifests signs of the TORCH syndrome, the examiner may test blood, urine, and spinal fluid for evidence of the infections listed above. Diagnosis can be confirmed by culture of one of the specific pathogens or by raised levels of IgM against the pathogen.
21656	The doctor conducts a physical examination to identify a torn meniscus. To confirm his or her diagnosis as well as reveal the extent of the tear, the doctor may use an X-ray of the knee or magnetic resonance imaging. Sometimes, the doctor uses an arthroscope to study the inside of the knee.
21657	Referral to a neurologist specializing in movement disorders may hasten diagnosis and treatment of torticollis.
21660	Tourette's Disorder may be diagnosed when a person manifests both multiple motor and one or more vocal tics (although these do not need to be concurrent) over the period of a year, with no more than three consecutive tic-free months.
21662	The doctor diagnoses the condition when the patient has high blood pressure and excess protein in the urine after 20 weeks of pregnancy. The condition is usually discovered during a routine prenatal blood pressure check and urine test. The doctor recommends further tests to check the functioning of the liver and kidneys and whether the number of platelets is at the normal level.
21663	The doctor conducts a physical examination and takes the patient's complete medical history. Although toxic hepatitis do not have tests to determine its existence, the doctor recommends blood tests that check for high levels of certain liver enzymes. The doctor may also perform a liver biopsy to confirm the diagnosis.
21664	Recent studies have postulated that early and definitive diagnosis can be made by observing the expansion of TSS-1 reactive V beta2-positive T-cell receptors in peripheral blood mononuclear cells.
21665	In suspected cases, diagnosis is confirmed by a raise in the anti-Toxocara excretory-secretory antigen IgE level.
21666	Serological tests, polymerase chain reaction (PCR), histological demonstration of the parasite and/or its antigens, or isolation of the organism may establish the diagnosis of Toxoplasmosis. Analysis of infected tissue as well as blood tests are also conducted to diagnose the disease.
21667	Among the questions that needed to be answered when diagnosing the disease are is the mother infected during or shortly before the pregnancy, is the fetus infected, and is the newborn child infected?
21668	When the esophagus is interrupted, confirmed by the inability to insert a nasograstric suction tube into the stomach can lead to the diagnosis of TEF. A radiopaque catheter can locate the exact type and location of the fistula. Airs in the bowel may also be shown using X-ray.
21669	Clinical signs of trachoma can be done with eye examinations, which involve careful inspection of the lashes, cornea, and limbus. Eversion of the upper lid and inspection of the tarsal conjunctiva may also be performed. Doing said examinations would require binocular magnifying loupes and if available, a slit lamp can be used.
21671	CBC counts, hemoglobin studies, viral studies, reticulocyte count and iron studies can are usually performed to diagnose the disease.
21672	A clear-cut anterograde amnesia must be present during an attack or episode in diagnosing TGA. There should also be no features if epilepsy and patient should not have any recent head injury or active epilepsy during the attack. Tests include a formal psychometric testing as well as a neuropsychological evaluation.
21673	Based on the patient's medical history of the attack, the doctor may diagnose the condition. A physical examination of some individuals may also reveal evidence suggesting the presence of arterial plaques. The doctor may hear a sound over the carotid artery in the neck. During an eye examination, the doctor may see through an ophthalmoscope cholesterol fragments in the tiny blood vessels of the retina or at the back of the eye. The patient may also undergo certain tests to diagnose the cause of the attack. Such tests may include carotid ultrasonography, computerized tomography angiography scanning, magnetic resonance imaging, magnetic resonance angiography, transesophageal echocardiography, and arteriography.
21674	It would take a step-by-step procedure before reaching a diagnosis of TCC. First step is urinalysis and culture, second is a radiograph especially if the first step doesn't reveal any infection, and third is a V-BTA test. Said test is also known as a bladder tumor antigen test, which is preformed if no stone is visible on the radiographs.
21676	Congenital heart defects as well as heart problems that may develop later in childhood are taken care of and diagnosed by pediatric cardiologists or neonatologists. One major indication of that there is a problem with a newborn is cyanosis. Physicians may also note of a heart murmur during a physical examination. Other diagnostic tests may include chest x-ray, ECG or EKG, echocardiogram, and cardiac catheterization.
21677	In diagnosing transverse myelitis, a general history and physical examination are first performed but these do not give clues of spinal cord injury. Physicians usually suggest MRI or a myelography. This is to rule out a compressive lesion and avoid a surgery that might reverse neurologic injury to the spinal cord.
21678	Travel sickness is easily diagnosed based on the symptoms shown by the patient.
21679	It is solely based on the development of diarrhea when visiting a place or part of the world where there is poor sanitation where in this is Travellers' Diarrhoeacommon among travellers.
21680	Examinations would reveal a variety of problems including abnormal eye shape, flat cheekbones, facial clefts, small jaw, low-set ears, malformed ears and abnormal ear canal.
21681	Diagnosis of ET is usually established on clinical grounds. The tremors can start from birth through advanced ages, also called senile tremor. Though it's most commonly seen in the hands, arms, and slightly less commonly in the neck, eyelids, larynx, tongue, trunk, and legs, other voluntary muscles in the body may also be affected. The disease may also sometimes occur along with other neurological disorders such as dystonia and benign fasciculation syndrome. No clear evidence however has been found to tell that a person with ET predisposes one of these disorders.
21682	It is easily diagnosed by the dentist simply by examining the gums and teeth. Dental x-rays and facial x-rays may be needed to determine the depth of infection and tissue damage. Blood tests are done if it is suspected that infection have spread to the other parts of the body.
21682	The dentist usually detects the disease by examining the patient's teeth and gums. Dental X-rays or facial X-rays may be needed to determine the extent of the infection and tissue damage. Blood tests are also performed if the infection is suspected to have spread to other areas of the body.
21684	Treponema pallidum infections may be diagnosed by analyzing swabs of chancre in primary and secondary syphilis. Other diagnostic procedures include: syphilis blood tests, VDRL test, syphilis antibody test, lumbar puncture test, and CSF syphilis test, among others.
21685	Among the tests conducted to diagnose the disease are complete blood count (CBC), muscle biopsy, serology studies and CPK. Patients may also be found to have a history of having eaten rare or uncooked pork.
21686	Tests to diagnose the disease include complete blood count (CBC), muscle biopsy, serology studies and CPK. Patients may also be found to have a history of having eaten rare or uncooked pork.
21687	A pap smear may detect the presence of the organism. Pelvic examinations reveal red blotches on the vaginal wall or cervix and a wet prep or a microscopic examination of discharge will also show the infection-causing organisms in the vaginal fluids.
21688	Physicians usually conduct thorough questioning to patients before diagnosing Trichothiodystrophy. Questions are generally about the skin but mucous membranes on the mouth, lips, and nose are also examined as well as the ears, hair, and nails. Blood tests can confirm the diagnosis of the disease while a chorionic villus sampling can detect hexosaminidase A deficiency in the fetus.
21689	A biopsy may be conducted to rule out other causes, explain the hair loss and diagnose the disease.
21690	The condition may be discovered during a prenatal ultrasound imaging, or when the baby undergoes examination right after birth. Cyanosis may already be present at birth and a heart murmur is usually present. Some of the tests include ECG, Echocardiogram, chest x-ray, and cardiac catheterization.
21691	In ruling out the condition, a magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and blood tests are performed.
21692	The illness is diagnosed based on the symptoms provided by the patient.
21693	Imaging such as x-rays are helpful to rule out the disorder.
21694	The standard screening test to diagnose the condition is measurement of urine amino acids. Blood test may also be performed to provide genetic analysis. Since TMAU is a rare disorder, tests to identify elevated levels of trimethylamine may be conducted, which can also identify carriers of the condition.
21695	A lacimal gland biopsy may be performed as well as CT scans to diagnose Triple-A syndrome. Obtaining a baseline serum glucose concentration and performing a lumbar puncture may be conducted among patients with seizure.
21696	Physicians may make a diagnosis of XXX syndrome by a chromosome analysis of blood sample. Genetic testing during the prenatal stage may also lead to the discovery of the disorder.
21697	Diagnosis is made by physical examination shortly after birth. Chromosome analysis or karyotyping will confirm the diagnosis. During pregnancies, abnormalities can be seen through sonograms. Other tests include abnormal screening test, or an abnormal CVS or amniocentesis test.
21698	Among infants, diagnosis is made by physical examination shortly after birth. A chromosome analysis or karyotyping will confirm the diagnosis. During pregnancies, abnormalities can be seen through sonograms, an abnormal screening test, or an abnormal CVS or amniocentesis test.
21699	To diagnose the disease, conventional cytogenetic studies may be conducted. Echocardiography is performed for cardiac anomalies while barium swallow is an option for gastrointestinal anomalies. Genitourinary anomalies may be discovered through an ultrasonography.
21700	Screening tests during pregnancy help identify whether the mother is at risk of carrying a baby with Down syndrome. Blood tests and ultrasound are used in screening the condition. If they indicate Down syndrome, the patient may undergo more invasive tests to determine if the baby actually has Down syndrome. The condition can also be identified through diagnostic tests during pregnancy such as amniocentesis, chorionic villus sampling, and percutaneous umbilical blood sampling. Newborn infants are diagnosed based on their appearance. If some or all of the characteristics of Down syndrome are apparent, the doctor may order a chromosomal karyotype to analyze the child's chromosomes. The existence of an extra chromosome 21 in all or some of the cells indicates Down syndrome.
21701	Pelvic examinations may reveal continued uterine enlargement or a tumor. It may be felt within the genitor-urinary tract. Tests include quantitative serum HCG, CT scan and chest x-ray.
21702	Performing pelvic examinations may expose continued uterine enlargement or a tumor and may be felt within the genitor-urinary tract. Other tests include quantitative serum HCG, CT scan and chest x-ray.
21703	Some of the tests conducted to diagnose the disease are CHEM 20, complete blood count (CBC), small bowel biopsy, stool test, upper endoscopy, and upper GI series.
21705	Diagnosis of the disease rests upon demonstrating trypanosomes by microscopic examination of chancre fluid, lymph node aspirates, blood, bone marrow, or, in the late stages of infection, cerebrospinal fluid. Having a wet preparation for examination of the motile trypanosomes should be done. In addition, a smear should be fixed, stained with Giemsa or Field, then examined. Also, concentration technique can also be used before a microscopic examination.
21706	Physical examinations such as assessment of the skin, mucous membranes, liver , spleen, and lymph nodes are among the primary steps in diagnosing the disease. Diagnostic tests may include home sleep tests as well as sleep apnea tests. It is also important to take note of the duration of the signs and symptoms before the patient asked for medical attention as well information on possible recent trips or campings. Questions like drug abuse and exposure to STDs may also be asked.
21707	Physical exams usually reveal enlarged lymph nodes, enlarged liver, and enlarged spleen. The diagnostic tests conducted to diagnose the disease are biopsies and cultures of affected organs or tissues, bronchoscopy for biopsy or culture, chest x-ray, open lung biopsy, retinal lesions revealed with fundoscopy, sputum cultures, and tuberculin skin test.
21708	In diagnosing TB meningitis, CSF collected by lumbar puncture is analyzed. The CSF sample collected should be at least 1ml of fluid but the ideal amount is 5 to 10 ml. Though a rare finding, the CSF collected has spiderweb clot characteristic. Individuals with TB meningitis are started on treatment even before the diagnosis of the disease since the culture of TB from CSF takes at least 2 weeks. A nucleic acid amplification test or NAAT may also be performed as well as imaging such as CT or MRI. Imaging tests however, cannot diagnose the disease but may show features that strongly suggest TB meningitis.
21709	The bacterium that causes TB is slow growing, making it difficult to diagnose to diagnose the disease. Among the tests performed to diagnose the disease are tuberculosis radiology, tuberculin skin test, a serological test, and microbiological smears and cultures.
21710	Retinal abnormalities, pale patches, and mulberry, phakoma or astrocytoma tumor may be revealed through an eye examination. MRI of the head, CAT scan of the head, kidney ultrasound, and ultraviolet light examination of the skin are among the other options to diagnose the disease.
21711	Diagnosing the disease would include several tests such as serology, polymerase chain reaction (PMR) test form an ulcer, blood culture for tularemia and chest x-ray.
21712	If Tularemia is suspected, a microbiologist is often consulted. A special media for cultivation is required to test F. tularensis, as the organism cannot be isolated in routine culture media. Sulphydril group donors (such as cystein) are necessary to determine an infection.
21713	Tummy ache can be diagnosed based on the complaints given by the patient.
21714	A skin biopsy of a suspected papule or nodule may be performed. Eggs may be seen on microscopic examination when a serosanguineous exudates oozes from the central opening.
21715	Physical exams can often identify signs and symptoms that are specific to the location of the tumor. However, there are tumors that may not cause symptoms therefore; tests are performed. Among those are CT scan of the head, MRI, EEG, CT-guided bipsy, and examination of the cerebral spinal fluid or CSF.
21716	The disease can be diagnosed at any stage. It may be diagnosed before birth or during the prenatal testing. Tests such as blood hormone levels, echocardiogram, karyotyping, MRI of the chest, ultrasound of reproductive organs and kidneys as well as pelvic examinations may be done.
21717	A single placenta massive polyhydramnios in the sac of the recipient twin can help diagnose the disease in the most sever form. Milder forms are harder to diagnose due to the lack of uniform criteria. However, physicians should suspect TTTS if there is the presence of amniotic fluid discrepancies between the cavities, regardless of the amount of weight discordance between the twins.
21718	Diagnostic tests such blood serum examinations are done to detect the onset of the disease.
21719	A complete blood count can tell whether there is an elevated white blood cell count in the blood. A blood culture may also be preformed during the first week of the. Other tests include stool culture, and ELISA test on the urine and using a fluorescent antibody to study the symptoms.
21721	There are no specific diagnostic procedures indicated for the disease.
21723	An echocardiography or more sophisticated methods of imaging suggest the diagnosis of UHL.
21725	The patient undergoes diagnostic tests to confirm the doctor's diagnosis. Such tests may include upper gastrointestinal X-ray, endoscopy, and biopsy. Other tests may also be required to determine whether the condition is caused by H. pylori infection. Additional tests may include blood test, breath test, and stool antigen test.
21726	The patient undergoes diagnostic tests to confirm the doctor's diagnosis. Such tests may include upper gastrointestinal X-ray, endoscopy, and biopsy. Other tests may also be required to determine whether the condition is caused by H. pylori infection. Additional tests may include blood test, breath test, and stool antigen test.
21727	The condition is easily identified during the early stages. Nonetheless, the doctor orders a blood tests to check for the patient's nutritional status and overall health. The doctor may also recommend urine analysis and culture, and biopsy.
21728	The patient undergoes diagnostic tests to confirm the doctor's diagnosis. Such tests may include upper gastrointestinal X-ray, endoscopy, and biopsy. Other tests may also be required to determine whether the condition is caused by H. pylori infection. Additional tests may include blood test, breath test, and stool antigen test.
21729	A colonoscopy with biopsy, as well as Barium enema is usually performed to diagnose Ulcerative colitis. Doctors may also conduct the following: CBC, sedimentation rate, and C-reactive protein.
21735	Diagnosis is made through the physical examination and examination of the sputum.
21739	Genetic tests Liver biopsy CT scan MRI
21740	Uremia is usually diagnosed in kidney dialysis patients when the glomerular filtration rate. Other tests may include blood creatinine, BUN, osmolality, and urine tests to check sodium and creatinine levels and to monitor kidney function.
21741	Diagnosis is made through complete blood count test, urine cytology, intravenous pyelogram or IVP, ultrasound of the kidneys, MRI of the abdomen and renal scan.
21742	Diagnosis is made through physical examination and undergoing tests such as urinary flow rate Post-void residual or PVR measurement, urinalysis, urine culture for possible infection and cystoscopy.
21743	Diagnosis is made through pelvic examination, ultrasound and abdominal examination.
21744	Diagnosis is made through cotton swab inserted in the urethra and examined the smeared cotton swab under the microscope.
21745	The doctor examines the patient's medical history and conducts a complete physical examination that focuses on the abdomen and genitals. The doctor may take a urine sample to test for infection, traces of blood or other abnormalities. The patient may also undergo a neurological exam to identify sensory problems.
21747	Typically colic in nature, clinical diagnosis of the disease is usually made on the basis of the location and severity of the pain. To confirm the diagnosis, imaging and a number of other tests are performed to establish both the possible cause and consequences of the stone.
21748	Common tests include bladder diary, urinalysis and blood test while for specialized tests postvoid residual (PVR) measurement, pelvic ultrasound, stress test, urodynamic testing, cystogram and cystoscopy.
21749	Diagnosis for urinary incontinence in children will include checking of the urinary tracts and bladder to examine the incontinence. It is also done by observing the patient over a period of time.
21750	Physicians will perform a number of laboratory tests to accurately diagnose the condition. Medical history are also taken with complete physical examination are also done. Urine sample are taken for the tests. Bladder scan may also be necessary, cystoscopy, X Ray and CT scan, blood test, prostate fluid sample, and urodynamic tests.
21751	Diagnosis is made through blood tests and imaging tests such as MRI, X-ray tests and CT Scan.
21752	Urinalysis Urine culture Urea and creatinine measurements for severe cases X-ray, MRI and CAT scan for further investigation in male patients
21752	A urine sample is the primary basis of diagnosing urinary tract infections, where pus, bacteria and red blood cells are present.
21754	Certain diagnostic tests will be recommended by your doctor, in addition to taking a thorough medical history and performing a physical exam. The tests include a thorough urinalysis, which is the most important first step. To look for high levels of protein and the presence of red blood cells which may indicate a kidney problem and excreted minerals that can cause kidney stones are the main purposes of urine tests. Blood tests can also be done to be able to measure levels of blood urea nitrogen and creatinine. Blood urea nitrogen and creatinine are waste products that build up in your bloodstream when your kidneys are damaged and not filtering properly.
21755	Diagnosis is made through blood tests, CT Scan and ultrasound.
21758	The skin swelling are unmistakable signs of the disease, however, blood and skin tests are needed to prove if this is an allergy and to trace the cause of the allergic reaction.
21759	A skin biopsy and examining the level of histamine on the urine can diagnose the disease.
21760	Diagnostic criteria are purely clinical but genetic diagnosis is considered currently feasible. There are only moderate non-specific signs of inflammation during the course of inflammatory attacks associated to the disorder. Biochemical analyses may be useful to exclude certain diseases that can be considered as a function of the clinical signs present.
21761	Diagnosis of Usher syndrome involves evaluation of the three senses namely vision, hearing and balance. The common tests are ERG, audio/hearing evaluation, and electronystagmogram (ENG).
21762	It is best to diagnose children before they develop night blindness. Testing the characteristic chromosomal mutations is the simplest approach to diagnosing Usher syndrome. Electroretinography (ERG) meanwhile is an alternative approach but is not favored because of the discomfort it causes the children.
21763	Pelvic exam Pap test Transvaginal ultrasound Biopsy
21763	Diagnostic tools available to determine uterine cancer include: pap tests; endometrial biopsy; dilation and curettage (D and C); and transvaginal ultrasound.
21764	Bimanual examination Sonography MRI Biopsy (rarely done) Laparoscopy (additional tests)
21764	Imaging tests are often the best instruments to detect uterine fibroids. This includes ultrasound. For cases of chronic blood loss, a complete blood checkup may be required.
21765	Doctors perform pelvic tests and laparoscopy to detect growths in the uterine area.
21766	The most common form of diagnosis of uterine prolapse is a pelvic examination. An imaging test is usually conducted to evaluate and confirm the condition or eliminate other possible underlying medical causes.
21767	Diagnosis for uterus didelphys is usually done using a routine pelvic exam. Other tests include imaging exams such as MRI, ultrasound, hysterosalpingography, and laparoscopy.
21768	A complete medical history and eye examination should be performed when diagnosing Uveitis. A physical examination and laboratory tests may be needed if an associated systemic disease is suspected.
21769	The symptoms of anterior uveitis are similar to those of other eye diseases. Optometrists often carefully examine the inside of the eye under bright light and high magnification to determine the presence and severity of the condition. Other diagnostic tests may also be performed depending on the stage of the disease.
21770	Physicians would usually take note of a patient's history in making a diagnosis. General eye examination is also performed. In identifying the cause, blood tests, x-rays, and other tests may be conducted.
21771	Some people affected with VACTERL will not present all typical findings. The diagnosis can be suspected because of polyhydramnios in the presence of a small or absent fetal stomach, hemivertebrae or scoliosis, or limb, renal, and cardiac defects. 3D rendering may recognize the presence of a supernumerary rib (13 and 14 pairs thoracic, 6 to 7 lumbar). If the fetus is severely affected, the ultrasound diagnosis of VACTERL may be accomplished in the second trimester of pregnancy.
21773	There are no specific screening tests for vaginal cancer, but it is sometimes detected in routine pelvic exams even before it becomes symptomatic. A pap test, a coloscopy, and a biopsy are also common diagnostic steps in determining vaginal cancer.
21773	The diagnosis is primarily based on the symptoms, A pelvic exam and colostomy may also be performed. Biopsy should also be done to check a small sample of the tumor really consist of cancer cells.
21774	Diagnosis is usually based on the symptoms as well as an assessment of the hormonal status. A pelvic exaam may also be performed to check other possible medical complications.
21775	Diagnosis is made through pelvic examination and examination of the discharge under the microscope.
21776	Diagnosis of PID can be done through physical examination as well as laparoscopic procedures to detect further growths or abnormalities in the pelvic area.
21777	Diagnosis is based on a pelvic exam as well as the reported symptoms of patients. A sample of the vaginal secretions or the cervical cells may be used to examined.
21778	Diagnosis is made through the use of dye tests, cyctoscopy, retrograde pyelograms, fistulagrams and imaging examination such as MRI, CT scan and Ultrasound.
21779	Vaginismus can be confirmed through a pelvic exam. It is also important to check the medical history and conduct a complete physical exam to rule out other possible causes of pain with sexual intercourse.
21780	Medical history review is performed to check history of vaginal infection or STD and afterwards perform pelvic examination. For laboratory analysis, a cervical or vaginal discharge sample is asked from the patient.
21780	The doctor will usually review the medical history for past history of vaginal infection as well as possibility of sexually transmitted diseases. Physical examination may also be conducted including a pelvic examination and biopsy for further confirmation.
21782	Sputum smear or culture Blood test
21782	The signs and symptoms of valley fever are not used as basis for diagnosis. A definitive diagnosis depends on finding Coccidioides spherules or cysts in the tissue, blood, or other body secretions of the patient. Tests such as sputum smear or culture and blood tests are performed to diagnose valley fever.
21783	Diagnosis of the condition is primarily clinical but a chromosomal analysis may be appropriate. Said technology is rapidly improving and may be noninvasively performed using tissue that is easily obtained, transported, and stored.
21789	Both chickenpox and the shingles are typically diagnosed using the presence of the symptoms alone. If a diagnosis remains unclear after conducting a physical examination, then diagnostic tests can be administered.
21790	Diagnosis is made through ultrasoundm doppler ultrasound, blood tests and other imaging tests such as MRI, CT Scan.
21791	The doctor will perform an examination in your legs or the affected area for swelling. The doctor might also ask the patient to describe the pain or aches felt. An ultrasound is done to check if valves in the veins are working properly. The doctor may refer you to a phlebologist that specializes in vein conditions.
21791	Diagnosis is based on the appearance of varicose veins in the legs and the symptoms.
21793	Medical experts and professionals can easily distinguish small pox from all other skin conditions just by physical examinations. Laboratory tests may be conducted to further confirm the diagnosis.
21795	Basis for diagnosis include MRI scans and CT Scans to check the infracts in the brain. A Doppler ultrasound may also be conducted to check the arteries in the neck that is directly feeding the brains. Additionally, a neuropsychological tests can help detect the type and degree of cognitive impairment.
21797	Examining a sample from an affected part of the body under the microscope is often required to confirm the diagnosis. Also particularly helpful are kidney biopsies if there are signs of kidney involvement. Angiograms and other special x-rays can sometimes diagnose vasculitis affecting large blood vessels.
21798	Henoch-Schonlein purpura is an important differential in diagnosing hypersensitivity vasculitis. Among the criteria are ages 16 above, use of possible triggering drugs, palpable painful purpura, maculopapular rash, and skin biopsy showing neutrophil infiltration.
21799	Diagnosis is made through personal examination of the person as well as undergoing blood tests and monitoring blood pressure.
21800	Among the tests that can diagnose Vasovagal syncope are tilt table test, implantation of an insertable loop recorder, using a Holter monitor, echocardiogram, and electrophysiology study.
21801	Since there is no biologic marker for Vater Association, the diagnosis is made by documenting component anomalies. Severe anorectal, cardiac tracheoesophageal and limb defects will present with obvious signs or symptoms but milder anomalies of these systems plus vertebral or renal defects may require laboratory and imaging studies for diagnosis (Wilson, Golder and Cooley, Carl (2006). Preventive Management for Children with Genetic Conditions, Cambridge University Press, p. 102)
21802	Velocardiofacial Syndrome is usually diagnosed in individual with submiscoscopic deletion of chromosome 22 detected by fluorescence in situ hybridization or FISH through the use of DNA probes from the DiGeorge Chromosomal Region or the DGCR. Considering that this condition is also inherited, prenatal testing such as amniocentesis may also be administered to mother whose pregnancies are determined to be at risk or those whose mothers whose pregnancies have findings of congenital heart disease and cleft palate as detected by ultrasound examination.
21803	The diagnosis can be suggested by the child's speech. More objective diagnosis can be obtained by direct vision of the soft palate while the child is pronouncing certain keywords by the fogging of the hand mirror placed under the nose during speech and from cinefluorograhic x-ray films (Dudas, Jr., Deleyiannis, FW, Ford MD, et.al. (2006) Diagnosis and Treatment of Velopharyngeal Insufficiency: Clinical Utility of Speech Evaluation and Videofluoroscopy, 511-517).
21804	To diagnose genital warts, an acetic acid solution is applied to the genitals to whiten the warts and view it through the microscope. A pelvic exam may also be performed for further confirmation.
21806	Diagnosis is made on surface electrocardiography. In many cases electrocardiogram is non-diagnosting and electrophysiologic testing with provocation is needed (National Organization for Rare Disorder (2003). NORD Guide to Rare Disorder, Lippincott Williams and Wilkins, p. 45).
21808	Ventricular septal defect or VSD is usually detected by cardiac auscultation which is generally considered sufficient for detecting a significant VSD.
21809	Diagnosis is made by history of chronic eczema, asthma or allergies in association with characteristic eye finding (Loewenstein, J., Lee S. (2003) Opthalmology: Just the Facts, p. 111).
21810	Veruccas are diagnosed based on the presence of the warts in the sole of the feet, as well as the given knowledge that the patient underwent treatment for HPV infection.
21811	Diagnosis is made through physical examination and undergoing laboratory examinations such as urinalysis test and serum creatinine level to check the serum creatinine, undergoing VCUG, renal-bladder ultrasound and nuclear renal scan.
21812	Diagnosis is made through laboratory examination as well as review of the personal medical history of the patient. Undergoing cerebral imaging, MRI and CT Scan may be used to diagnosed the medical condition.
21813	Diagnosis is made through CBC count, serum level tests, stool examination for blood and fecal leukocytes and coagulation tests. Imaging tests such as chest radiography and CT Scan may also be required to determine the presence of the medical condition and rule out other possibilities of the disease.
21814	Diagnosis is made through CBC count, serum level tests, stool examination for blood and fecal leukocytes and coagulation tests. Imaging tests such as chest radiography and CT Scan may also be required to determine the presence of the medical condition and rule out other possibilities of the disease.
21815	Diagnosis is made through CBC count, serum level tests, stool examination for blood and fecal leukocytes and coagulation tests. Imaging tests such as chest radiography and CT Scan may also be required to determine the presence of the medical condition and rule out other possibilities of the disease.
21816	Diagnosis is made through blood tests and physical examination.
21817	The disease can be easily diagnosed through dental examination. In some cases, x-rays are used to determine the extent of the infection and the degree of tissue damage.
21819	Clinical picture, fasting VIP plasma dosage, CT scan are used to confirm the condition of VIPoma . Somatostatin receptor scintigraphy is used to localize and confirm the tumor.
21820	Diagnosis is made through physical examination and blood tests.
21821	Diagnosis for viral exanthem will include blood tests or other procedures to culture viruses or the bacteria to investigate for other serious causes of the rash. Differential diagnosis is also done.
21822	The usual way to diagnose it is by relying on the symptoms, doctor performing physical exam and in some cases basing it on similar cases in the community. A rapid stool test is done to check for rotavirus. A stool sample may be asked to exclude probable bacterial or parasitic infection.
21822	The usual way to diagnose it is by relying on the symptoms, doctor performing physical exam and in some cases basing it on similar cases in the community. A rapid stool test is done to check for rotavirus. A stool sample may be asked to exclude probable bacterial or parasitic infection.
21822	Diagnosis is made through physical examination and review of symptoms and the medical history of the patient. Stool tests are also required to determine which virus caused the medical condition.
21824	Diagnosis is usually made through laboratory with advanced biocontainment capabilities which is usually accomplished through hypoclorite and phenolic disinfectants (Woods, Lt Col Jon B. (ed.) (April 2005). USAMRIID's Medical Management of Biological Casualties Handbook, 6th ed., U.S. Army Medical Institute of Infectious Diseases, Fort Detrick, Maryland, 143-144.)
21825	Diagnosis is made through physical examination and review of the symptoms. Undergoing blood tests and tests to determine obstruction of the bile ducts are also required.
21826	Diagnosis is made through lumbar puncture and CSF analysis.
21828	The doctor will need to check dietary history and usual optical lesions that suggest vitamin A deficiency.
21828	Diagnosis is made through physical examination and review of the medical history of the patient.
21829	Diagnosis is made through physical examination and review of the medical history of the patient.
21830	Vitamin B6 deficiency may be confirmed by measuring plasma PLP or erythrocyte transaminase activity (Morley J., Thomas, D. (2007) Geriatric Nutrition, CRC Press, p. 158).
21831	Diagnosis is made through physical examination and routine monitoring of the methylmalonic acid levels in urine.
21832	Diagnosis includes own observation of symptoms and consequently physical examination and medical history evaluation of physician. Medical tests which include blood tests for Vitamin B12 levels to check for antibodies to the intrinsic factors are also used to confirm the condition (Griffith H.W., Moore, S., (2006). Complete Guide to Symptoms, Illness and Surgery, Perigee, p. 148).
21833	Diagnosis is made through plasma or the leukocytes vitamin C level and blood tests.
21834	Diagnosis is made through physical examination and review of medical history of the patient. Blood test may also be required.
21835	Diagnosis is made through physical examination and review of medical history of the patient. Blood test may also be required.
21836	Typical signs of this condition is observed from the first months of life whereby the person shows radiological signs of defective miniralization on cartilage growth plates or the rickets and bones or the osteomalacia and severe alteration of the phosphocalcic homeostasis in spite of the normal satisfactory status of Vitamin D. it may also combine bone deformities especially in the lower limbs. (Garabedian, Michele (2002). Vitamin D Resistant Rickets, p.1)
21837	Vitamin-deficiency anemia is usually diagnosed through a blood test to determine what particular vitamin the body is deficient of. Other types off test that include antibody tests, schilling test and methylmalonic acid test.
21838	Diagnosis often includes examination of patient's history of inadequate intake or a predisposing condition. The confirmation of this condition includes measuring vitamin level or through measuring RBC hemolysis in response to peroxide. Measuring Plasma alpha-tocopherol level is also suggested as it is the most direct method of diagnosis.
21839	Examination of dietary and medical history suggest the deficiency. Usually a medical confirmation of the level of serum alpha-tocopherol is also used to detect the deficiency (Sprinhouse (2005) Professional Guide to Disease, 8th Edition, Lippincott Williams and Wilkins).
21840	Diagnosis is made through physical examination and review of medical history of the patient. Blood test may also be required.
21841	Diagnosis is made through physical examination and elevated serum PT tests.
21842	Usually an examination conducted by the physician is sufficient to confirm the diagnosis of the medical condition. However, blood testing to check thyroid levels and other hormones and skin biopsy may also be used to confirm or rule out other causes of loss of skin pigmentation.
21843	Its diagnosis is based on the recognition of pathognomonic clinical features. Fluorescent Angiography characteristically reveals multifocal areas of leakage at the level of RPE. Biopsy is also used to confirm the condition. Its diagnosis is often exluded if there is history of ocular trauma preceding the onset of the ocular disease. (Steidl, S., Hartnett, M.E (2003) Clinical Pathways in Vitreoretinal Disease, Theime Medical Protocols, p. 329-330).
21844	Confirmation of diagnosis of VLCAD deficiency may be obtained by assaying enzymes activity in cultured skin fibroblasts leukocytes.
21845	Diagnosis is primarily based on the symptoms. Other clinical tests include endoscopy, laryngeal eletromyography, as well as blood tests and scans. Immediate and prompt diagnosis is important to ensure the efficacy of treatment.
21846	Diagnosis includes examination and observation if whether or not the hepatomegaly, fasting hypoglycemia and slow growth are accompanied by lactic acidosis, enlarged kidneys and hypertriglyceridemia. Liver biopsy with electron microscopy and assay of glucose-6-phosphates activity in the tissue and gene testing are the most direct diagnosis to confirm the condition.
21847	Genetic Testing, CT Scan, Biopsy and Magnetic Resonance are used to confirm the condition including examination of the location and number of tumors in the body.
21848	Diagnosis includes examination of the clinical features. Normally, to confirm the presence of the medical condition, two of the seven cardinal clinical features are required, to wit: 6 or more cafΘ-au-lait macules, 2 or more neurofibromas of any type or 1 plexiform neurofibroma, optic glioma 2 or more lish nodules, a distinctive ossesous lesions such as sphenoid dysplasia and the presence of a first degree relative having the same medical condition or criteria.
21849	Diagnosis includes complete blood counts especially of the platelet, activated partial thromboplastin time or the APTT, Testing for factor IX are also performed if Hemophilia B is suspected.
21851	Vulvar cancer is initially suspected based on clinical symptoms, a physical examination, a pelvic exam, and the patient's medical history. To rule out other noncanceroud conditions, a biopsy is almost always required, including excisional biopsy and punch biopsy. Imaging tests such as chest x-rays, magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scans, computerized tomography scans, and positron emission tomography (PET) are also recommended to determine if the cancer has spread.
21852	Diagnosis is made through physical examination particularly that of the pelvic and wet prep inspection.
21853	Confirmation of the medical condition is based on the physical findings and examination. Cotton Swab Test is also used to delineate the areas of pain and categorize their severity.
21854	The condition is confirmed through laboratory and microscopy observation of the discharge after history and physical examination.
21855	Diagnosis includes examination of the family gene of the person and physical examination inasmuch as the syndrome is seen in the symptoms it manifest. Medical and laboratory examination are also used to confirm the syndrome.
21856	Diagnosis includes examination of family history of the patient and physical examination.
21863	Diagnosis includes examination of the examination of medical history of the person including the family history of disease since the Wagner's disease is an inherited disease. Examination of craniofacial surgeons, ear/nose and throat specialists also confirmed the disease.
21864	Diagnosis includes examination of family history and medical and physical examination. Examination by the opthalmologists, audiologists and rheumatologists are also used to confirm the presence of the syndrome in a person.
21865	Diagnosis includes physical examination as in the case of genital anomalies, infants affected by the syndrome especially the aniridia may be diagnose through physical examination Chromosomal analysis however, is strongly advice to confirm the syndrome.
21866	Diagnosis includes examination of the distinguishing feature of the Waldenstr÷m macroglobulinemia condition which is the presence of an IgM monoclonal protein of the paraproteing that is produced by the cancer cells and a decrease in the levels of uninvolved immunoglobulins such as the IgG and IgA.
21867	Diagnosis includes medical examination of the distal nerves from the site of the injury which may be separated from their cell bodies in the brain stem inasmuch as the axonal skeleton tends to disintegrates and the axonal membrane breaks apart after the injury.
21868	Diagnosis includes the physical examination of the person and the examination of the person's family history. To confirm the presence of the medical condition, diagnosis will often includes the use of radiographs of the lateral third of the clavicles which may be marked by bilateral clinodactyly of the fifth fingers which is usually associated with the hypoplastic middle phalanx.
21869	Inasmuch as there is really no obvious manifestation of the disease except in cases of abdominal pain, the diagnosis is often hard and may be made only through medical imaging techniques such as medical ultrasonography, magnetic resonance imaging or computed tomography.
21870	Diagnosis includes physical as well as laboratory examinations.
21871	Diagnosis to confirm the presence of warts includes merely physical examination of the person.
21872	The diagnostic tests for water in the knee include joint aspiration, MRI, x-ray, and blood tests. These tests can help determine the underlying cause of the condition as well as eliminate other possible cause such as other serious health complications.
21873	The doctor will make sure that the patient's symptoms are because of water intoxication. Water intoxication is distinguished by excess water both in and around the cells of the body while excess volume of blood happens when the body has too much sodium and cannot move water to basins in the cells.
21874	Diagnosis includes the Synachten test inorder to demonstrate the acute suprarenal failure of the person affected with the Waterhouse-Friderichsen syndrome.
21875	The presence of the Watermelon Stomach or the Gastric antral vascular ectasia is made through medical and physical examination or through the use of endoscopy (Suit PF, Petras RE, Bauer TW, Petrini JL (1987). "Gastric antral vascular ectasia. A histologic and morphometric study of 'the watermelon stomach'". Am. J. Surg. Pathol. 11 (10): 750-7).
21877	Diagnosis includes physical and medical examination of the symptoms as they appear to the person affected with the condition.
21878	Diagnosis are through physical examination where the symptom are manifest and laboratory studies including chest radiograph (Abuzahra F, Kovacs S, Beermann T, et al.Treatment of relapsing idiopathic nodular panniculitis with clofazimine. Br J Dermatol. Mar 2005;152(3):582-3).
21879	Diagnosis includes blood tests, urine tests for the effect of the disease to the kidneys, biopsy and chest x-ray.
21880	Diagnosis includes blood test or serum testing, kidney function tests and enzyme-linked immunosorbent Assay or ELISA and Serological testing.
21881	The disease is curable if diagnosed in time, but most doctors in the urban areas may never have encountered it. Symptoms is the initial basis of a diagnosis of leptospirosis.
21881	Usually, Weil's disease is suspected if the physician is made aware that the patient had contact with any potential source of the infection. Following a suspicion of Weil's disease, samples must be cultured in appropriate centers to confirm the diagnosis.
21882	Diagnosis includes physical examination as well as examination of the family history of the person affected inasmuch as the syndrome is an inherited disease.
21883	Diagnosis of the condition includes the undergoing Electro-Myelo Gram or EMG which will show Fibrillation & Muscle Denervation and the use of Serum Createnine-Kinase which may either be normal or increased.
21884	Diagnosis only includes examination of family history.
21885	Diagnosis is made through evaluation of medical history of patient and undergoing laboratory and radiographic tests, EEG and CT Scan.
21886	Diagnostic procedures include examination of blood samples to measure levels of vitamin B12.
21887	The West Nile encephalitis can be diagnosed by means of studying the symptoms given by the patient as well as by CT scan and X-ray to see the damages in the brain and spinal cord.
21888	Diagnosis include the use of IgM antibodies or the enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay that is measured in the blood through blood tests within the 8th day of the onset of the symptom. The use of acute and convalescent phase serum and the use of plaque reduction neutralisation test or the PRNT is also used along with the used of CT Scan and MRI.
21889	Diagnosis may be made through careful study and observation of the symptoms which varies from one person to another.
21890	Confirmation of the Western equine encephalitis or WEE is through blood tests and/or spinal fluid tests.
21891	Diagnosis includes the use of Compound Muscle Amplitude Potential or the CMAP test and the exercise EMG or X-EMG. Also examination of patient's history or report of serum potassium low normal and genetic diagnosis.
21893	Physical examination is one of the primary diagnoses for wheat allergy. It is highly important to identify the source of the allergy to ensure that patient will avoid eating food products he/she is allergic to. A skin test may also be conducted.
21894	Diagnosis of wheat hypersensitivity include simple tests like skin prick test and other allergy tests which include hydrolysate proteins for other antigens (Matsuo H, Morita E, Tatham AS, Morimoto K, Horikawa T, Osuna H, Ikezawa Z, Kaneko S, Kohno K, and Dekio S. (2004). "Identification of the IgE-binding epitope in omega-5 gliadin, a major allergen in wheat-dependent exercise-induced anaphylaxis.". J Biol Chem. 279 (13): 12135-12140).
21895	The doctor will ask how the accident happened and will measure how far the neck can move in several directions. X-rays are also done to rule our other causes of neck pain. MRI or CT scan to check for soft-tissue damage.
21895	Doctors can usually determine the diagnosis by founding out the cause of the injury. Additional diagnostic tests include x-rays, MRI and CT scan to detect any possible vertebral fractures, arthritis or dislocations.
21896	Diagnosis and confirmation of the medical condition and disease is made through the use intestinal biopsy, immunohistochemical staining for antibodies against the bacteria Tropheryma whipple and a confirmatory PCR-based assay. Endoscopy and x-ray are also used to confirm the medical condition.
21897	Diagnosis is made through undergoing stool ova and parasite examination to confirm the presence of whipworm eggs.
21898	Diagnosis includes the physical examination as well as examination of the patient's family history inasmuch as the medical condition is oftentimes an inherited disease.
21900	The disease can be diagnosed based on the symptoms shown by the patient, as well as by community indexing during an outbreak.
21901	Diagnosis is made through Tzanck test, anti body testing and DNA hybridization.
21902	Diagnosing whooping cough during the early stages can be hard since the symptoms are similar to other common respiratory problems. Medical tests used to confirm include a throat or node culture and test as well as blood tests. A chest X-ray may also be conducted to have a supplementary basis for diagnosis.
21903	Diagnosis includes the use of culturing of nasopharyngeal swabs on Bordet-Gengou medium, the polymerase chain reaction or the PCR, immunofluorescence or the DFA and serological methods.
21904	Diagnosis includes examination of medical history of patients, physical examinations for unusual bruises and bleeding, blood tests and other tests like the Von Willebrand factor antigen, ristocetin, mutimer and platelet function tests are used to confirmed the disease.(Sadler, J. E. (1998) "Biochemistry and Genetics of von Willebrand factor." Annu Rev Biochem; 67:395-424).
21905	Diagnosis includes examination and investigation of blood plasma through measuring the amount of Von Willebrand Factor antigen assay and functionality. Medical laboratories such as complete blood count, activated partial thrompbosplastin time, prothrombin time and thrombin time and platelet function assay are also used to confirm the disease.
21906	Diagnosis includes blood pressure check, blood testing for missing chromosome, echocardiography along with Doppler ultrasound and kidney ultrasound.
21907	Diagnosis includes physical examination as in the case of genital anomalies, infants affected by the syndrome especially the aniridia may be diagnose through physical examination Chromosomal analysis however, is strongly advice to confirm the syndrome.
21908	Diagnosis often includes undergoing a computed tomography or CT-Scan which examines the chest area and pelvis for any signs of the tumor.
21909	Diagnosis includes liver function tests and Magnetic Resonance Imaging or MRI, prothrombin test used for coagulation tests and measuring the Alkaline phosphatase levels and Urine tests to determine the level of copper are also advised if there are neurological symptoms. Liver biopsy are also used to confirm the disease.
21910	The disorder can be diagnosed by X-ray examination of the shoulder blades.
21911	Winter vomiting disease can be diagnosed by detecting the presence of the virus in feces and blood serum.
21912	Diagnosis is usually bases on clinical parameters especially in the blood film and low immunoglobulin levels. Usually the IgM levels for person with this condition is low and the IgA and IgE are elevated and paraproteins are observed (Radl J, Dooren LH, Morell A, Skvaril F, Vossen JM, Uittenbogaart CH (1976). "Immunoglobulins and transient paraproteins in sera of patients with the Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome: a follow-up study". Clin. Exp. Immunol. 25 (2): 256-63).
21913	Diagnosis is usually done through an ultrasound in utero or by appearance at birth. Genetic testing is also used to confirm the syndrome while additional tests like x-ray may also be advised to look for bone and internal malformations, renal ultrasonography may be used also to examine the kidneys as well as MRI to detect brain malfunctions may be used.
21914	Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome is confirmed on the basis of the surface of the ECG in a person showing no symptoms of the medical condition where it shown as a delta wave which usually slurred upstroke in the QRS and manifest a short PR interval.
21915	Diagnosis includes the analization of theWFS1 gene and the examination of the family history of the patient.
21916	Diagnosis to confirm Wolman Disease is made through the use of the Acid lipase enzyme estimation.
21917	Diagnosis is done by radiograph studies, MRI and studying the symptoms given by the patient.
21918	Diagnosis includes physical examination of the patient as well as the examination and study of the patient's family history inasmuch as the disease is inherited.
21919	Diagnosis to confirm the medical condition includes the use of light and electron microscopy and opthalmologic treatment (Hutchinsons, PE (1964), et al Wooly hair: General and Clinical aspect, Trans St. John's Hosp Derm Soc, 160-177)
21920	Worms can be diagnosed by fecal inspection, since worms that thrive in the large intestine may join elements that are due for defecation.
21921	Threadworms are found in the feces released by affected persons.
21922	Worster-Drought syndrome is diagnosed through physical examination and study of family history (Neville, B. (2004) Worster-Drought Syndrome, Institute of Child Health, London, UK).
21923	Diagnosis of wrinkles is mainly based on the development of fine lines and creases on the skin. Among the most common spots are around the eyes and lips.
21924	Diagnosis includes physical examination and the taking into account the frequency of the occurrence of the symptoms.
21926	Diagnosis is made through Western Blot test, blood tests and genetic blood testing.
21929	Diagnosis inludes genetic testing and examination from a dermatologist (J÷bsis AC, De Groot WP, Tigges AJ, et al (1980). "X-linked ichthyosis and X-linked placental sulfatase deficiency: a disease entity. Histochemical observations". Am. J. Pathol. 99 (2): 279-89).
21930	Diagnosis of the X-linked mental retardation and macroorchidismis through physical and laboratory examination of the cells.
21932	Diagnosis for palpebrarum are done using skin biopsy. It will include numbing of the skin with anesthesia injected, taking a small sample of skin using razor blade or a scalpel, the sample is then examined under the microscope. The cholesterol levels in the blood are also determined.
21933	Diagnosis includes examination of family history and certain medical tests.
21934	Diagnosis includes examination of family history and certain medical tests.
21935	Diagnosis is made through physical examination and biopsy.
21936	Diagnosis includes a biochemical analysis of certain molecules in the blood and urine.
21937	Diagnosis includes examination of the patient's history as well as physical and laboratory examinations.
21945	The medical condition of Xerophthalmia is confirm through the use of the Schirmer test (Kunimoto DY, Kanitkar KD, Makar MS; The Wills Eye Manual (4th Ed.) 2004, Lippincott, Williams and Wilkins).
21948	Diagnosis of the Y chromosome microdeletion is through extracting DNA leukocytes in a man's blood sample and mixing it with a genetic marker and thereafter used the polymerase chain reaction amplification and gel electrophoresis.
21949	Confirmation of the medical disease is identified through blood tests or by lesion sample by using the darkfield examination through the microscope. ( World Health Organization, World Health Organization (1997) WHO Model Prescribing Information: Drugs Used in Skin Diseases p.26).
21950	Primary methods for diagnosis are microscopic examination and culturing.
21951	Diagnosis includes the medical examination especially blood tests.
21952	Diagnosis mainly depends on the symptoms as they manifests and usually includes x-rays, blood tests, or examination of the nail part that is affected in the laboratory (Book: Textbook of Dermatology. Ed Rook A, Wilkinson DS, Ebling FJB, Champion RH, Burton JL. Fourth edition. Blackwell Scientific Publications).
21953	Grams stains can detect gram negative rods, and in some cases, identify the double curved shape of Yersinia. Further screening may come in the form of Anti-F1 serology tests, which can distinguish between the different Yersinia species.
21954	It is generally diagnosed through the presence of the gram negative rods usually those appear to have double curved shaped. Anti-F1 Serology Tests are also used to confirm the disease.
21957	Diagnosis includes biopsy and AFT test results for EST. Furthermore, a GATA-4 or transcription factor is also used to confirm the disease (Siltanen S, Anttonen M, HeikkilΣ P, Narita N, Laitinen M, Ritvos O, Wilson DB, Heikinheimo M (1999). "Transcription factor GATA-4 is expressed in pediatric yolk sac tumors.". Am. J. Pathol. 155 (6): 1823-9).
21967	Diagnosis is made through physical examination and blood tests.
21968	Blood tests Upper endoscope examination Barium X-ray
21971	Inspect or observe the entire skin surface. Observe the overall pattern of skin lesions, and record their position. Notice their color, shape, and size. Inspect the tissue of his mouth, nose, and lips and inspect his ears, hair, and nails.
21972	The doctor may order a battery of blood tests. There are several tests that have proven reliable in diagnosing Zuska's Disease and also ruling it out.
